---
layout: page
title: 2014-12-17
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" class="image" title="LD4PE logo"><img alt="LD4PE logo" src="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" width="100" height="99"></a>
<a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/Pet/ld4pe" class="external text" rel="nofollow">LD4PE Task Group Homepage</a> 
</p>
<h1> <span class="mw-headline" id="17_December_2014:_Meeting_Summary"> 17 December 2014: Meeting Summary </span>
</h1>
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
<a href="#17_December_2014:_Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">17 December 2014: Meeting Summary</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">Summary</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Action_Items"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">Action Items</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Meeting_Resources_.26_References"><span class="tocnumber">1.4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources &amp; References</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<p><br>
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Agenda"> Agenda </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> Mike-update on contract status
</li>
<li> Tom-  Github status
</li>
<li> Stuart- status of tutorial on ASN
</li>
<li> Stuart- update on Joseph’s competency index structure progress
</li>
<li> David- status of WordPress website planning
</li>
<li> Marcia/Debbie- status of environmental scan for current work related to project
</li>
<li> All- editorial discussion on formulating learning objectives and tagging resources
</li>
<li> Mike- Next project update meeting time and agenda items
</li>
<li> Other business
</li>
</ul>
<p><br>
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Summary"> Summary </span>
</h2>
<p>Present: Tom Baker, David Clarke, Mike Crandall, Margie Hlava, Joseph Chapman, Mike Lauruhn, Deborah Maron, Sam Oh, Stuart Sutton, Marcia Zeng 
</p>
<ul>
<li> <b>Contract status:</b> All contracts and sub-grants have been finalized. Mike will follow up with each of you to make sure you have the information you need for invoicing/processing.
</li>
<li> <b>Github:</b> Tom will set up a Github project site after the first of the year and send out details on how we will be using it after the first of the year, but in the meantime everyone will need to register themselves on <a href="https://github.com/" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Github</a> <sup id="cite_ref-0" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-0">[1]</a></sup> so that he can add you to the project site.
</li>
<li> <b>ASN Tutorial:</b> Stuart has created the first in a series of planned screencasts on the ASN editor and future iterations for the project, and sent the <a href="http://bit.ly/LD4PE-EdOver" class="external text" rel="nofollow">URL</a> <sup id="cite_ref-1" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-1">[2]</a></sup> out earlier. Take a peek when you get a chance and let him know what works and doesn't.
</li>
<li> <b>Competency Index:</b> Joseph Chapman will be the lead on the technical aspects of this work, basing it on his 8 years of experience with ASN. The basic architecture and components are outlined on the <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/Pet/ld4pe/confidential" class="external text" rel="nofollow">confidential page</a> <sup id="cite_ref-2" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-2">[3]</a></sup> of the wiki, and will be fleshed out as time goes on. The tutorial mentioned above shows an example of how the index will work.
</li>
<li> <b>Wordpress:</b> We have tentatively settled on Wordpress for the front end to the index and resources, and David Talley has begun thinking about themes and site navigation for the project. It is likely that we will host the instance on a commercial service to ensure long-term security and maintenance, since this will be the basis for other DCMI efforts in the future. Stuart, Joseph, Mike and David will meet early in the new year to begin discussing linkage between Wordpress and ASN, and lay out the steps necessary to set up the hosting environment and Wordpress instance.
</li>
<li> <b>Resources:</b> Marcia will be hiring an RA shortly who will set up a database to store resources, but in the meantime, Debbie will begin collecting what she can and post on a wiki page off the main LD4PE wiki site. In particular, collecting pointers to projects working in the same space as us will be helpful so that we can coordinate and cooperate with them. As this effort ramps up, either Debbie or the Kent State RA will probably be contacting all of you to gain your insights into potential parallel efforts and resources that you are aware of.
</li>
<li> <b>Editorial board:</b> Tom asked to begin regular meetings of an editorial board for the competency index and resources. To begin with, this will consist of Stuart and Tom, and others will be added as areas are fleshed out within the index that need specialized expertise for review. 
</li>
<li> <b>Next meeting:</b> will be on January 21, same time. If you would like to join the Skype call, send  <a href="mailto:mikecran@uw.edu" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Mike Crandall</a> your Skype address and he will add you to the call group.
</li>
<li> <b>Other business:</b> 
<ul>
<li>Stuart recommended that everyone take a look at the <a href="http://euclid-project.eu/" class="external text" rel="nofollow">EUCLID project</a> <sup id="cite_ref-3" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-3">[4]</a></sup> if you haven't already for an example of materials that we may want to leverage or add to.
</li>
<li> We agreed to set up four sub-groups focusing on the following work streams. Each of the leads should decide how they want to schedule meetings, and who should be involved at what stage in their work. Ideally, each lead will report back to the larger team at these monthly status calls. It might also be a good idea to start a wiki page for the last three groups (the technical group already has the private wiki page mentioned above):
<ul>
<li> Technical Discussions.  Stuart will lead this
</li>
<li> Resource Collection.  Marcia will lead this, with Debbie and the new Kent State RA as co-leaders
</li>
<li> Editorial Board. Tom will lead this
</li>
<li> Marketing and Community Building.  Mike C. will lead this, with assistance from Mike L.
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Action_Items"> Action Items </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> <b>Github:</b> Everyone should register on <a href="https://github.com/" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Github</a> <sup id="cite_ref-4" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-4">[5]</a></sup> by the end of the year so Tom can set up the project workspace.
</li>
<li> <b>Work groups:</b> Each of the work group leads should set up regular meetings with those who need to be involved in the streams under their lead. If assistance is needed with this, let Mike Crandall know and he will be happy to help.
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Meeting_Resources_.26_References"> Meeting Resources &amp; References </span>
</h2>
<ol class="references">
<li id="cite_note-0">
<a href="#cite_ref-0">↑</a> <a href="https://github.com/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://github.com/</a>
</li>
<li id="cite_note-1">
<a href="#cite_ref-1">↑</a> <a href="http://bit.ly/LD4PE-EdOver" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://bit.ly/LD4PE-EdOver</a>
</li>
<li id="cite_note-2">
<a href="#cite_ref-2">↑</a> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/Pet/ld4pe/confidential" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/Pet/ld4pe/confidential</a>
</li>
<li id="cite_note-3">
<a href="#cite_ref-3">↑</a> <a href="http://euclid-project.eu/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://euclid-project.eu/</a>
</li>
<li id="cite_note-4">
<a href="#cite_ref-4">↑</a> <a href="https://github.com/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://github.com/</a>
</li>
</ol>



				
				
	</div>