---
layout: page
title: 2015-07-21
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" class="image" title="LD4PE logo"><img alt="LD4PE logo" src="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" width="100" height="99"></a>
<a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/Pet/ld4pe" class="external text" rel="nofollow">LD4PE Task Group Homepage</a> 
</p>
<h1> <span class="mw-headline" id="21_July_2015:_Meeting_Summary"> 21 July 2015: Meeting Summary </span>
</h1>
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
<a href="#21_July_2015:_Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">21 July 2015: Meeting Summary</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">Summary</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Action_Items"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">Action Items</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Meeting_Resources_.26_References"><span class="tocnumber">1.4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources &amp; References</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Agenda"> Agenda </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> Schedule Review- Mike Crandall
</li>
<li> Technical Work- Stuart Sutton 
</li>
<li> Editorial Board- Tom Baker 
</li>
<li> Resource Collection- Sean Dolan
</li>
<li> Marketing and Community Building- Mike Lauruhn
</li>
<li> Anyone—other business
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Summary"> Summary </span>
</h2>
<p>Present: Tom Baker, Mike Crandall, Sean Dolan, Abi Evans, Margie Hlava, Mike Lauruhn, 
</p>
<p>Debbie Maron, Sam Oh, Stuart Sutton, David Talley 
</p>
<ul><li> <b>Schedule Review</b>: We walked through the schedule developed during the proposal to make sure that we were more or less on track. Deliverables have been slightly modified and progress noted in an updated <a href="/images/f/f5/ScheduleOfCompletion-2015-06-30.pdf" class="internal" title="ScheduleOfCompletion-2015-06-30.pdf">schedule</a><sup id="cite_ref-0" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-0">[1]</a></sup>, but progress is good overall.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> <b>Technical Work</b>:  Joseph has moved all the resource descriptions into the triple store and they can now be edited directly using the <a href="http://explore.dublincore.net/rdf/lrmi" class="external text" rel="nofollow">editor</a><sup id="cite_ref-1" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-1">[2]</a></sup>. It is also possible now to pull the resources descriptions into WP, and Abi has finished the plugin to make that possible. Abi asked for volunteers to test the process using the editor to make sure that the records are transferring correctly. Some of the description fields still need to be edited for length. Anyone wanting to tackle this on is more than welcome to dive in. Tom, Mike, David and Abi discussed methods for managing development of the WP site going forward, in anticipation of the site moving under DCMI ownership and maintenance eventually. It was decided to move to WP Multi-site to accommodate a potential new DCMI front page with additional sites added at a later time.  David will be investigating this and documenting the process for moving from a development environment to the production environment, using manual backups and clear written procedures to allow roll-backs if necessary. We discussed moving forward with initial design for the learning trajectory maps, with David revisiting the wireframes he started some time ago to see what still needs to be decided. This will probably not start until next year, but we should be getting ready for it now. 
</li></ul>
<ul><li> <b>Editorial Board</b>: Tom is back in Germany and has recruited the core of the Editorial Board-- Tom, Sean, Stuart and Kai.  The Competency Index will be held in Github, and Tom is exploring whether the VocBench editor Semantic Turkey can be used to manage it. Will need to expand the circle for the board for specific topics, but will be starting with SPARQL resources that Sean has been gathering. The first meeting will be before August. Tom will follow up on Marcia's suggestion that Corey Harper might be interested in helping with this.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> <b>Resource Collection</b>: Eric is still not quite ready to open the datasets, though they have been extracted and are in a host environment that can provide them as a raw data. He is still trying to figure out whether a SPARQL endpoint will be possible or just a download of the data. Sean has been slowing down on collecting resources until the Editorial Board convenes and begins working on the SPARQL collection. He has tested the LD4PE editor with 5 sample resources and found it works well.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> <b>Marketing/Community building</b>: Mike L. suggested getting on the program for ALA midwinter or annual, which have shown high interest in linked data in the past year. Mike will follow up with Theo at UW to see if the ALA Linked Data interest group might be sponsoring a session at one of the upcoming meetings and whether they would like us to participate. Mike is continuing to update the list of conferences on the wiki, so check to see if you might be able to present at one of the upcoming events. We have a number of poster submissions completed now, so there is material to work with for creating a submission. We discussed the importance of ongoing communications about the project as we move to public view, and Mike L. volunteered to develop a strategy and schedule for getting the word out through a WP blog or other mechanisms over the next year.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> <b>Next Meeting</b>:  Tuesday, August 18. Same time (7:00 AM PDT).
</li></ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Action_Items"> Action Items </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> David will investigate WP multi-site as possible replacement for single site host
</li>
<li> David to explore development/production process and document when ready
</li>
<li> David will revisit the wireframes for the learning trajectories and update based on current thinking
</li>
<li> Abi will continue to work on display for resources and metadata from triple store through WP plugin
</li>
<li> Tom will set a meeting for the Editorial Board in late July.
</li>
<li> Eric will try to finish up OCLC data sets by end of July
</li>
<li> Mike L will develop a strategy and schedule for public communications about the project.
</li>
<li> Mike C will explore possible session at ALA meeting with ALA Linked Data Interest group.
</li>
<li> <b>Next Meeting:</b> Tuesday, August 18, at 7:00 AM PDT.
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Meeting_Resources_.26_References"> Meeting Resources &amp; References </span>
</h2>
<ol class="references">
<li id="cite_note-0">
<a href="#cite_ref-0">↑</a> ScheduleOfCompletion-2015-06-30.pdf</li>
<li id="cite_note-1">
<a href="#cite_ref-1">↑</a> <a href="http://explore.dublincore.net/rdf/lrmi" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://explore.dublincore.net/rdf/lrmi</a>
</li>
</ol>



				
				
	</div>