---
layout: page
title: 2015-11-17
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" class="image" title="LD4PE logo"><img alt="LD4PE logo" src="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" width="100" height="99"></a>
<a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/Pet/ld4pe" class="external text" rel="nofollow">LD4PE Task Group Homepage</a> 
</p>
<h1> <span class="mw-headline" id="17_November_2015:_Meeting_Summary"> 17 November 2015: Meeting Summary </span>
</h1>
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
<a href="#17_November_2015:_Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">17 November 2015: Meeting Summary</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">Summary</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Action_items"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">Action items</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Meeting_Resources_.26_References"><span class="tocnumber">1.4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources &amp; References</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<p><br>
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Agenda"> Agenda </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> Marketing and Community Building- Mike Lauruhn
</li>
<li> Resource Collection- Sean Dolan
</li>
<li> Technical Work- Stuart Sutton 
</li>
<li> Editorial Board- Tom Baker 
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Summary"> Summary </span>
</h2>
<p>Present: Tom Baker, Mike Crandall, Sean Dolan, Abi Evans, Margie Hlava, Mike Lauruhn, Debbie Maron, Sam Oh, David Talley, Marcia Zeng
</p>
<ul><li> <b>Marketing and Community Building:</b> Debbie and Mike L. presented at the LITA Forum last week, with an audience of about 15 people. Main takeaways include: 1) They weren’t familiar with the concept of a competency index, but were interested in knowing that there could be a list of competencies so that someone could be proficient in Linked Data. 2) There might be a bit of fatigue setting in for Linked Data events that follow the same format: talk about URIs, talk about triples, talk about Schema.org, look at this cool finished product. Want to know HOW to do it, not what the product is-- “where are the verbs? What do I ‘do’?”. Indicated top three clusters in Competency Index are right on target. 3) Areas that may not be in our scope, but are of high interest include how to make the case to management to try a project, and how do you evaluate what makes for a good candidate for a Linked Data project. 4) One woman wondered if the Competency Index could inform staffing for a project. 5) Need some type of interactive version of the CI that solicits feedback. For the forum, Mike and Debbie scraped the contents from  GitHub and pasted them into an editable Google doc and sent the link around. 6) Would be useful to map competencies to decision making and sample problems, so know when to use specific linked data applications- How do you know when Linked Data is an appropriate solution for your problem?  In other outreach activities Margie mentioned the project and showed the Competency Index at ASIST and Taxonomy Boot Camp in the past few weeks. Upcoming public events include the iSchool Research Fair this Thursday (Mike C will present DC2015 poster, and ask for feedback on current version of CI at that time), Mike L will be at ALISE and Midwinter in Boston in January. Mike L. mentioned that the DC branding is valuable to provide credibility when presenting. Blog is up and needs input-- if you have anything to contribute, please do so.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> <b>Resource Collection:</b> Still need feedback on OCLC datasets, but Eric is moving ahead with making them public in the meantime. Sean added 40 new resource items, focusing on assessment items (quizzes,etc). Looking for planning materials such as lesson plans and syllabi (good resource for links to assessment materials). Did gap analysis, found a lot of resources to understand linked data, but not enough to tell how to do linked data. The topics on RDF vocabularies and creating and transforming RDF data topics are skimpy- will probably need to expand in CI. The topic index has been integrated with the competency index, and provides single point of access now to materials. Still have heavier concentration of sophisticated and beginner materials, but missing middle layer. Margie suggested looking at MarkLogic for tutorial videos; Sean has included some of those in the orphaned materials that will be migrated soon. Marcia wonders if there is some way to capture usage of materials in future to help with ratings to weight more heavily in presentation (may be something to consider in looking for rating plug-in).
</li></ul>
<ul><li> <b>Technical:</b> David has been debugging JavaScript issue to fix FAQ and other issues. Current focus is on finding a social voting interface for individual learning resources, and providing the ability to sort the resource listing by ranking. Abi will investigate possibility of commenting on individual nodes- don't want something static since would be out of date rapidly. Stuart has been working on LRMI content migration as well separately. Joseph has priced out SSL certificates- $50 from Network Solutions (where Dublin Core is registered).  Stuart had asked a question about whether that $50 would cover multiple DNS entries, and it doesn't look like this is the case, so a separate SSL cert would be needed for each site (and any others such as LRMI). The orphan resources have not yet been merged into the triple store, because Joseph has been updating the competency index topic headings to the authoring environment.  When that is complete, he will also push the orphan resources up. Should be updated in a few days.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> <b>Editorial Board:</b> The merged topic/competency index is available on <a href="https://github.com/stuartasutton/cieb-1/blob/master/CompIndex/CompIndex-draft.md" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Github</a><sup id="cite_ref-0" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-0">[1]</a></sup>, and all meeting minutes and comments are world-readable so you can keep up with the Editorial Board's discussions there if you are interested. The next Editorial Board call is on November 27th, finishing up SPARQL topic and beginnning work on the  Fundamentals of RDF topic. Sean goes through existing resources and provides a couple dozen for review, then the Board brainstorms competencies from this. The SPARQL topic is well developed, just needs a bit more work on read/write competencies.
</li></ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Action_items"> Action items </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> Mike C send Mike L DC2015 poster and CI handout
</li>
<li> Everyone contribute to blog if possible (contact Mike L if you have questions about what is needed)
</li>
<li> Content partners send feedback on OCLC data sets- will they be useful as is for learning resource exercises?
</li>
<li> David explore options for rating services, Abi look into ways of commenting on resources
</li>
<li> Joseph and Stuart will resolve SSL question and purchase appropriate licenses
</li>
<li> Joseph will move orphan resources into triple store once CI has been updated in authoring environment.
</li>
<li> <b>Next Meeting:</b> Tuesday, 12/15 at 7:00 AM PST.
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Meeting_Resources_.26_References"> Meeting Resources &amp; References </span>
</h2>
<ol class="references"><li id="cite_note-0">
<a href="#cite_ref-0">↑</a> <a href="https://github.com/stuartasutton/cieb-1/blob/master/CompIndex/CompIndex-draft.md" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://github.com/stuartasutton/cieb-1/blob/master/CompIndex/CompIndex-draft.md</a>
</li></ol>



				
				
	</div>