---
layout: page
title: 2015-10-20
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" class="image" title="LD4PE logo"><img alt="LD4PE logo" src="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" width="100" height="99"></a>
<a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/Pet/ld4pe" class="external text" rel="nofollow">LD4PE Task Group Homepage</a> 
</p>
<h1> <span class="mw-headline" id="20_October_2015:_Meeting_Summary"> 20 October 2015: Meeting Summary </span>
</h1>
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
<a href="#20_October_2015:_Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">20 October 2015: Meeting Summary</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">Summary</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Action_items"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">Action items</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Meeting_Resources_.26_References"><span class="tocnumber">1.4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources &amp; References</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<p><br>
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Agenda"> Agenda </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> Technical Work- Stuart Sutton 
</li>
<li> Resource Collection- Sean Dolan
</li>
<li> Editorial Board- Tom Baker 
</li>
<li> Marketing and Community Building- Mike Lauruhn
</li>
<li> Other business-  Anyone
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Summary"> Summary </span>
</h2>
<p>Present: Mike Crandall, Sean Dolan, Mike Lauruhn, Debbie Maron, Stuart Sutton, David Talley, Joseph Chapman
</p>
<ul><li> <b>Technical:</b> Using sprint method for development, weekly meetings with first report out tomorrow.  Will use new topical vocabulary as navigation structure for learning resources.  All have been diving into Avada WP theme-- high learning curve, complex PhP templates, which makes downstream modifications problematic if make changes. Need to be aware of this for long-term maintenance. Working on content elements, improved overall navigation structure. Abi has been working on display for Learning Resources page. Now shows all resources associated with any competency in right hand column. Is implementing expand and collapse behavior on Competency Index (to keep viewing window small). You can see the current state on a <a href="http://explore.dublincore.net/browse-ci-test/" class="external text" rel="nofollow">private page</a><sup id="cite_ref-0" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-0">[1]</a></sup> (log-in required). Next steps will be investigating reordering of resource display so title is first, followed by description. Thinking about how voting mechanism might be used to allow users to evaluate learning resources, with automatic ranking based on number of votes. Important since this will be the long-term strategy for surfacing high-value resources once the project is completed. Joseph added proficiency levels to resource cataloging tool so can be tagged with these. Waiting for final topic list and will add that to resource tagging tool as well. Will pull remaining tagged resources in Github into triple store. As we discuss users logging in, may need to get SSL certificate for website to encrypt passwords to provide protection on public network logins. Joseph is currently refactoring the competency index editor to make it more usable, last piece is generation of RDF to make sure hierarchical data gets produced correctly on authorship, and relationships are preserved.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> <b>Resource Collection:</b> Sean cataloged 65 resources this month, 50 the prior month. Total resource count is 355, but the complete total is closer to 450 (60 have not been migrated yet to repository, and of 70 syllabi, about 30 do not have URLs). Will probably have to wait until later to figure out what to do with non-URL resources. Have added more resource types to list so that can refine categorization of resources. OCLC has made their static dataset available to us, and will publish as a downloadable data set once content partners have evaluated. DCMI will explore putting up more interactive interface later. Mike C. is gathering feedback from partners and will work with Eric to finalize.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> <b>Editorial Board:</b> Have further developed the topical vocabulary for navigation and will be finalizing tomorrow.  This will enable us tagging to a stable subject index for resources, which will make it possible to map the resources to competencies in the WordPress site.  The focus until now has been on SPARQL, using resource warrant.  Some gaps in resources identified, but nearly complete. This section will be finalized by the next monthly call, with public review next. Next goal is to look at the Fundamentals category, the largest batch of material and probably the most well-covered. Will use resource warrant and expert warrant (Editorial Board). 
</li></ul>
<ul><li> <b>Marketing and Community Building:</b> Mike L. launched the blog last week with his <a href="http://explore.dublincore.net/2015/10/13/getting-ready/" class="external text" rel="nofollow">post</a><sup id="cite_ref-1" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-1">[2]</a></sup>, time for others to start contributing. Anyone can get a WordPress account (just below login link on site), but administrator will need to assign role. Sean has written a post already, others welcome to participate. Have lots that could be mined from the technical side and editorial board. Might be good to explore having these go out through an RSS feed, perhaps Twitter as well. All should join Gravatar and provide image so show up on the site. Debbie and Mike L. going to LITA Forum, also midwinter in Boston in January. 
</li></ul>
<ul><li> <b>Other business:</b> Our interim report to IMLS is coming up at the end of November, and the content partners will need to document their contributions to date as part of the financial reporting. Mike C. will follow up with each partner individually to discuss details- need these by early November.
</li></ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Action_items"> Action items </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> Joseph will investigate cost of SSL certificate
</li>
<li> Joseph will migrate orphan resources into triple store
</li>
<li> Mike will continue working with content partners to explore DCMI data set usage
</li>
<li> Sean will update gap analysis
</li>
<li> All think about blog posts and create content
</li>
<li> All create a Gravatar account so pictures are available
</li>
<li> David will explore RSS and Twitter feed for blog posts and other announcements
</li>
<li> Content partner cost share letters due back to Mike C by early November
</li>
<li> <b>Next Meeting:</b> Tuesday, 11/17 at 7:00 AM PST.
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Meeting_Resources_.26_References"> Meeting Resources &amp; References </span>
</h2>
<ol class="references">
<li id="cite_note-0">
<a href="#cite_ref-0">↑</a> <a href="http://explore.dublincore.net/browse-ci-test/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://explore.dublincore.net/browse-ci-test/</a>
</li>
<li id="cite_note-1">
<a href="#cite_ref-1">↑</a> <a href="http://explore.dublincore.net/2015/10/13/getting-ready/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://explore.dublincore.net/2015/10/13/getting-ready/</a>
</li>
</ol>



				
				
	</div>