---
layout: page
title: 2015-09-15
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" class="image" title="LD4PE logo"><img alt="LD4PE logo" src="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" width="100" height="99"></a>
<a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/Pet/ld4pe" class="external text" rel="nofollow">LD4PE Task Group Homepage</a> 
</p>
<h1> <span class="mw-headline" id="15_September_2015:_Meeting_Summary"> 15 September 2015: Meeting Summary </span>
</h1>
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
<a href="#15_September_2015:_Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">15 September 2015: Meeting Summary</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">Summary</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Action_items:"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">Action items:</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Meeting_Resources_.26_References"><span class="tocnumber">1.4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources &amp; References</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<p><br>
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Agenda"> Agenda </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> Technical Work- Stuart Sutton 
</li>
<li> Resource Collection- Sean Dolan
</li>
<li> Editorial Board- Tom Baker 
</li>
<li> Marketing and Community Building- Mike Lauruhn
</li>
<li> Anyoneâ€”other business
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Summary"> Summary </span>
</h2>
<p><a href="https://www.dropbox.com/home/MEETING_RECORDINGS" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Meeting recording</a>
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Action_items:"> Action items: </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> Stuart/David/Abi/Joseph to set up weekly sprint call
</li>
<li> Mike C will follow up with Eric re: OCLC data sets and arrange a meeting (or dedicate our next monthly call) for content partners to talk with Eric about how best to expose and use
</li>
<li> <b>Next Meeting:</b> Tuesday, 10/20 at 7:00 AM PDT.
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Meeting_Resources_.26_References"> Meeting Resources &amp; References </span>
</h2>



				
				
	</div>