---
layout: page
title: 2016-01-19
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" class="image" title="LD4PE logo"><img alt="LD4PE logo" src="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ld4pe.png" width="100" height="99"></a>
<a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/Pet/ld4pe" class="external text" rel="nofollow">LD4PE Task Group Homepage</a> 
</p>
<h1> <span class="mw-headline" id="19_January_2016:_Meeting_Summary"> 19 January 2016: Meeting Summary </span>
</h1>
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
<a href="#19_January_2016:_Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">19 January 2016: Meeting Summary</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Summary"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">Summary</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Action_items"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">Action items</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Meeting_Resources_.26_References"><span class="tocnumber">1.4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources &amp; References</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<p><br>
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Agenda"> Agenda </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> Technical Work- Stuart Sutton 
</li>
<li> Resource Collection- Sean Dolan
</li>
<li> Editorial Board- Tom Baker 
</li>
<li> Marketing and Community Building- Mike Lauruhn
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Summary"> Summary </span>
</h2>
<p>Present: Tom Baker, Joseph Chapman, Dave Clarke, Mike Crandall, Sean Dolan, Abi Evans, Sam Oh, Stuart Sutton, David Talley, Marcia Zeng
</p>
<ul><li> <b>Technical:</b> 
</li></ul>
<p>David implemented ratings plugin- Abi is working on display ordering so highest come first. Joseph imported orphaned resources, got SSL certificate ordered and installed for WP site, now need to configure WP to use SSL certificate. AWS is ready to be upgraded for increased capacity, at the end of January when one year free subscription comes to an end and will need to upgrade to $25/month. 
</p>
<p>Now have controlled vocabulary for top two levels of topical index (subject access), competencies are lower levels (as separate vocabulary). Will need to figure out how to present both views of resources (subject and competency). This also will need to extend to other properties such as audience level and other controlled fields. Abi has started looking at subject display, others will follow similar pattern. Issue is where to expose all controls so that user knows what is available and can easily use them. Probably place in left rail which should be doable, and is familiar interaction model. Will need to implement WP tags or custom taxonomies. May be able to use facets for some filtering capability, be 
selective on what is made accessible to user so they don't get lost. Need to define this in separate conversation based on user feedback, etc. Stuart, Abi and David Talley will set up a call to prioritize this work.
</p>
<p>Marcia will bring a new RA on board in June to do usability testing, two different parts: 1) usability and accessibility testing to provide feedback on the design of the platform. This may take two or more interactions, to make sure the final format is fine. 2) Marcia will invite key user representatives to use the platform and send back their feedback in terms of usability and usefulness. These interviews will be conducted virtually so we can get better feedback. It will not be a formal IRB process nor a random sample. The overall purpose is to help the design and delivery of the LD4PE platform. Stuart pointed out that there are actually two sets of users- those who want to use the Exploratorium, the second is those who might want to use metadata generation tools. May need to do two separate testing schedules.  Mike L's comments on types of users (below in ALA MW feedback) may influence choice of interviewees, perhaps by function and level of expertise. 
</p>
<ul><li> <b>Resource Collection:</b> 
</li></ul>
<p>OCLC data set status- Eric reports that he is almost through the approval process for posting the OCLC data sets, and should have them up soon.
</p>
<p>Sean has completed a gap analysis by topic and type of resource (see <a href="/images/e/eb/Resource_representation_jan2016.pdf" class="internal" title="Resource representation jan2016.pdf">media:Resource_representation_jan2016.pdf</a> and <a href="/images/9/94/Resource_types_jan2016.pdf" class="internal" title="Resource types jan2016.pdf">media:Resource_types_jan2016.pdf‎</a>), and we are ready for content partner contributions. Sean and Mike C will follow up with partners in the coming weeks to define areas that match their expertise to create learning resources to fill in the identified gaps in the competencies. The gap analysis shows both granularity and types of audience so that there is a good focus for content partner efforts.
</p>
<p>Sean is continuing to work on an editorial guide for the content editor and will send out a link for review and comment. He has been realigning resources to the revised CI, and they now show up on the Exploratorium under the new approved CI. At the moment, only the competency level resources (78) show up, but the top two topical levels are not showing up- might be good to enable this functionality as well. Sean has started to tag all resources at topical levels, and completed 40-50 so far. Also added 15 or so new resources this month. 
</p>
<ul><li> <b>Editorial Board:</b> 
</li></ul>
<p><a href="https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-01-15.cieb-notes.md" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Editorial Board December 19 meeting notes</a><sup id="cite_ref-0" class="reference"><a href="#cite_note-0">[1]</a></sup> are available for review if interested. In brief, two more telecons are planned between now and March. Discussed granularity of competencies and final details on SPARQL competencies. Tom will make decisions on detail points without consulting board given time and bandwidth. 
</p>
<p>In relation to faceted views of content, and including user comments regarding resources and their facets, may need to revise workflow for updating CI to include additional steps in review, since this is beyond the current simple workflow for managing the CI itself. Concern is making this a sustainable process beyond the end of the project. Need to define a revision process so that we have marking points for publication going forward. The Editorial Board should focus on competencies and topical layers, other vocabularies will be added through the content editor, which is a separate process. Will need to develop process for managing versioning and editing of these vocabularies as well.
</p>
<ul><li> <b>Marketing and Community Building:</b> 
</li></ul>
<p>Mike L. presented the Competency Index and the project to the Library Linked Data interest group at ALA Midwinter. Good news/bad news was that they had many more attendees than expected-- well over 100 and standing room only. There wasn't much opportunity to circulate handouts and discuss. Instead, Mike suggested that we would get a version online that people can review and comment on. At present, Mike L and Tom have come up with ways of presenting, either through a Google document generated from the Github published CI (same as on the Exploratorium), or as a static Google spreadsheet. The Google doc seems to be preferable for commenting purposes, and would keep the CI in sync with the Exploratorium and the Editorial Board versions. Any comments would be included in the Editorial Board discussions. Mike L can publish the Google doc address through the listserv for this particular ALA Interest Group, which has over 300 members, and we are free to use this listserv to disseminate communications about this review cycle on an ongong basis. Mike L can also push out as a blog post on the Exploratorium. Some audience feedback indicated interest in clustering the Index topics by audience (beginner, intermediate, advanced) or by role (cataloguer, project manager, application developer, product management).  Will need to think about this in WP UI discussions of use of controlled vocabularies.  Also will need to work through developing process and interface for ingest of new input for CI. Will need to set up meeting with Joseph/Tom/Mike C and Stuart to discuss interface itself.
</p>
<p>Other activities include the submission of a poster abstract to the IFLA conference by Mike C and Marcia. Mike C is also considering submitting a poster abstract for ALA annual as well, deadline Jan 29. If anyone else will be going let Mike C know asap and we can submit jointly. For DCMI annual, might consider a special session on competency based approaches (deadline March 15). Mike C will work with Stuart on this. Other deadlines for DCMI in Copenhagen: Special &amp; Panel Sessions, Workshops, and Tutorials Proposal Deadline 15 March 2016; Best Practice Posters &amp; Demonstration Submission Deadline 15 July 2016; Technical Program Submission Deadline 13 May 2016. Might want to consider multiple submission types, if others are interested let Mike/Stuart know.
</p>
<p>Also might want to submit to ASIST as well since it is co-located with DCMI this year. Perhaps a panel would be appropriate here, focused more broadly on learning Linked Data. Margie/Marcia will explore; Mike C will send previously completed work as building blocks for submission to Margie and Marcia. Submission dates are March 10 for paper mentoring, April 17 for papers, panels and workshops and May 3 for posters. If doing joint workshop will need to submit to both conferences. Might want to broaden out for panel to focus on learning Linked Data more broadly. May also want to consider a workshop to look at LD4PE as an example for others to build on for other areas such as knowledge organization in the future.
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Action_items"> Action items </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> Stuart, Abi and David Talley will set up a call to prioritize UI work.
</li>
<li> Sean and Mike C will follow up with content partners in the coming weeks to define deliverables.
</li>
<li> Sean to post editing user manual to DC-PET group for feedback.
</li>
<li> Tom to set up meeting with Joseph/Tom/Mike C and Stuart to discuss technical implications of a process for managing incoming comments for Editorial Board use.
</li>
<li> Anyone interested in co-submitting to ALA annual, let Mike C know right away.
</li>
<li> Mike C and Stuart will discuss proposals for DCMI, others welcome to join.
</li>
<li> Marcia and Margie will discuss options for ASIST; Mike C will forward prior materials for their use.
</li>
<li> <b>Next Meeting:</b> Tuesday, 2/16 at 7:00 AM PST.
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Meeting_Resources_.26_References"> Meeting Resources &amp; References </span>
</h2>
<ol class="references"><li id="cite_note-0">
<a href="#cite_ref-0">↑</a> <a href="https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-01-15.cieb-notes.md" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://github.com/ld4pe/cieb/blob/master/calls/2016-01-15.cieb-notes.md</a>
</li></ol>



				
				
	</div>