---
layout: page
title: minutes20160225
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<pre>
DCMI RDF AP Task Group
http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles
Meeting date: Feb 11, 2016. NOTE NEW TIME: 8am PST, 11am EST, 5pm CET.
Meeting link: https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M2O5NEDCS7DKY32GWG8A46DS0D-JV0D&amp;rnd=756673.45093
Meeting minutes: https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-25-02-2016

Attendees: Valentine, Hugo, Antoine, Corey, Karen, Lars
Regrets: Thomas
    
AGENDA:
    
1. Admin
DCMI technical board would like:
    - a "brief statement detailing the next steps for the group and maybe identify a new deliverable to cover the next period of work..
    - "formalise the closure of the current work with a brief of 1-2 pages summarising the first outcomes with pointers to the deliverables and wiki". Could be used for dissemination on LODLAM, CODE4Lib...
    
ACTION: Karen and Antoine to act sending the material that the DCMI tech group requires. After sending it for the group to review

Possible steps:
- continue interacting with W3C SHACL group; 
- providing test cases
- analyse AP needs that are not, and are not logically, part of SHACL (esp. non-validation)
- document SHACL for DCMI community - this will be done in the first step by documenting our examples
-- document how to manage different data situations pushing data to SHACL (Corey's idea)
- study whether SHACL meets all of DCMI member needs - How can we get feedback?
--compare SHACL to DCMI requirements
--- compare SHACL to DCMI DSP (but not necessarily propose a new version of DSP) (Corey/TomJ/KC paper and Lars' requirement)
----make recommendations to dc-architecture
-- finalizing our findings as a document and putting it out for review
- explore how SHACL could fit with the DC AP framework - but not committing to have final results/recommendations

ACTION: Karen to write and post a document outline in an etherpad

2. Alignment with W3C Data Shapes

- W3C activity 
2nd draft of SHACL is out   

We need to post questions to the group.
Maybe not as questions but more raising attention.

DCMI repository in W3C Data Shapes Test Suite by Karen:
https://github.com/w3c/data-shapes/tree/gh-pages/data-shapes-test-suite/tests/dcmi

- EDM SHACL activity report (Valentine/Hugo)

Europeana SHACL test file: https://github.com/hugomanguinhas/europeana/tree/master/edm-shapes/src/main/resources/etc/edm/shapes
EDM validation rules: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dI29hgckyHn3B0h5shmbYX3jcp3PZfX7TA30Ohp_dMI/edit

Hiugo to send feedback to https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-shapes/ (one email per point of discussion)
Hugo has used a test data file (small)
does the testing assume open or close?

ACTION: europeana to formalize the open questions that Valentine told us about at https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-28-01-2016
--DONE: https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;b9b4de0e.1602

3. New requirements and APs? (We didn't get to this - for next time, start here)

- Access to shapes, relation between (instance) data and shapes 

Lars' requirement for http negotiation of shapes
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A1=ind1512&amp;L=DC-ARCHITECTURE#7 and http://files.dnb.de/svensson/I-D-accept-schema.txt
Here's a similar proposal Internet-Draft: https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-wilde-accept-post-00
Antoine will try to send feedback.
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;968f8287.1602
Lars will send to Arnaud cc DC-ARCHITECTURE once feedback is there and the I-D is updated

Are these two LDP-related requirements in scope for DCMI group? Are they related to Lars' requirement below?
http://w3c.github.io/data-shapes/data-shapes-ucr/#uc31-ldp-post-content-to-container-of-a-certain-shape
http://w3c.github.io/data-shapes/data-shapes-ucr/#uc38-describing-and-validating-ldp


- Miika Alonen's AP
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;c364c4f8.1509
Could be tests for SHACL. This software performs the validation of DCAT-AP rdf files via a web form which loads a file (Turtle, RDF/XML, N-triples, JSON-LD) as graph in a triplestore and it queries the triple store with a SPARQL query. Also does error messages
https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/software/dcat-ap_validator/description
https://github.com/EmidioStani/dcat-ap_validator/tree/master/tests
Example: https://github.com/EmidioStani/dcat-ap_validator/blob/master/rules/rule-108.rq
If there's something there that SHACL doesn't do then it's a bad sign because this project seemed to be in our core audience

ACTION: Karen to have a look at the rules and see whether they match our requirements and what SHACL can do.

Karen: Miika could be a good person for looking at SHACL. I will send him a note.

4. Loop back to the DC concept of APs

This group was tasked to further develop the DC concept of application profiles. The original AP was developed with XML in mind.

ACTION: Antoine to articulate how SHACL relates to DC notion of application profiles - simple answer (maybe too simple to be true)
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;df853b3d.1602

5. Coming conferences and collaborations
    
- has there been recent Hydra talks about RDF APs?
    
- Mariana's Call for Chapters - Book "Developing Metadata Shemas and Application Profiles"
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;1377d958.1601
    
- DC 2016, TPDL 2016, other?
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;d322e167.1601


6. AOB



===== On the backburner, until progress has been made on other work items (esp. requirements)

2015 Comparison of W3C and DCMI requirements:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bCpQVyxI-N2Ca83umvQD8OKTdsDyG6Sz-E8Qo3v8ynM/
Hugo's email with suggestions: https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;41aa27ca.1505
ACTION: group to tackle by email:
- requirements taken from W3C which apparently donâ€™t have a match in DC
- suggestions on the mapping from DC to W3C

Thread on W3C/DC requirement coverage, with Thomas doc
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;539e5b2b.1512

SWIB discussion: check whether some items can be brought up in the agenda, e.g. update DSP
http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/SWIB2015_breakout

===== Pre-SWIB agenda points not merged in agenda [material for chairs / coming calls]

X. Polishing 2015 requirements
ACTION: Antoine to look at unclear requirements in Hugo's email
--ONGOING: only one requirement remains unclear: https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;8c92de00.1506

X Requirement database archival
ACTION: Antoine to create dumps and link them from the wiki pages - Valentine will contact Stuart.
We couldn't upload it to the wiki.
Valentine: Stuart is the one who could help

X. Planning for AP development   
Look at Corey/Tom/Karen document and see how it fits into this in terms of defining the scope of an AP.
    http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/blendingDoc
Do we need a connection with the next LDP?
ACTION: Corey to record a picture before the Minnesota discussion, on AP, 'de-referencing', 'graph definition'. See https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-13-08-2015

X Lars' new requirement, Discussed in previous call: https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-18-06-2015
ACTION: Antoine to sum up and email the discussion. [on the differences with other requirements] And put the case and requirement in our database.

X. Express requirements as RDF, mapping between DSP and our requirements

X. Coordination with BIBFRAME
Thomas' evaluation of BIBFRAME AP: http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/BibframeAnalysis

X. Coordination with Hydra, Fedora
Hydra Metadata Working Group: https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/hydra/Hydra+Metadata+Working+Group
Portland Common Data Model: https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Portland+Common+Data+Model
ACTION: Karen: post this link to W3C group - on hold until W3C group gets to the right point
</pre>



				
				
	</div>