---
layout: page
title: minutes20150120
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
<a href="#DCMI_RDF_AP_Task_Group"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">DCMI RDF AP Task Group</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#1._Discussion_of_use_cases_and_requirements"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">1. Discussion of use cases and requirements</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Coordination_with_W3C_Shapes_group_-_role_of_DCMI_group"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">Coordination with W3C Shapes group - role of DCMI group</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Admin_-_Next_calls"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">Admin - Next calls</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<h1> <span class="mw-headline" id="DCMI_RDF_AP_Task_Group">DCMI RDF AP Task Group</span>
</h1>
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/RDF_Application_Profiles" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles</a>
</p>
<p><b>Meeting date</b>: Jan 20, 2015
</p>
<p><b>Meeting link</b>: <a href="https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M2QXENESBFPA2MCVRRRV81NXOU-JV0D&amp;rnd=651463.20347" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M2QXENESBFPA2MCVRRRV81NXOU-JV0D&amp;rnd=651463.20347</a>
</p>
<p><b>Etherpad</b>: <a href="http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-20-01-2015" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-20-01-2015</a>
</p>
<p><b>Attendees</b>: Valentine, tom, Antoine, Karen, Evelyn, Stefanie
</p>
<p><b>Regrets</b>: Corey, Thomas, Lars
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="1._Discussion_of_use_cases_and_requirements"> 1. Discussion of use cases and requirements </span>
</h2>
<p><a href="http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/</a>
</p>
<p><a href="https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/requirements_analysis" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/requirements_analysis</a>
</p>
<p>process for requirement merges - see <a href="https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;704b0413.1411" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;704b0413.1411</a>
</p>
<p>[See discssion on the requirement etherpad]
</p>
<p>A new page has been started: <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/RDF_Application_Profiles/Requirements" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/Requirements</a>
</p>
<p>Karen will start it and add as much as possible
</p>
<p>... and then call for others to contribute
</p>
<p>... how to get that help best?
</p>
<p>Antoine: call reviewers?
</p>
<p>Karen: Tom? It would be in a week.
</p>
<p>Tom: so the review would be me looking at it with fresh yere and see whether the definitions make sense
</p>
<p>Karen: ok. I could ping you after I've done a section
</p>
<p>Tom: alright
</p>
<p>Karen: some of it have startes oddly worded. We could hget less RDFy
</p>
<p>Action Karen: check why Requirement 1 not included in EricP's list; what is requirement E08
</p>
<p>ONGOING: we have to see whether we include it. We can do it after work on our requirement.
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Coordination_with_W3C_Shapes_group_-_role_of_DCMI_group"> Coordination with W3C Shapes group - role of DCMI group </span>
</h2>
<p>charter: <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/RDF_Application_Profiles/Charter" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/Charter</a>
</p>
<p>W3C draft requirements list: <a href="https://www.w3.org/2014/data-shapes/wiki/Requirements" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://www.w3.org/2014/data-shapes/wiki/Requirements</a>
</p>
<p>email: <a href="https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;7d388645.1501" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;7d388645.1501</a>
</p>
<p>Karen: the group is still discussing requirements on the draft list
</p>
<p>... their use stories (possibly use cases) document is being discussed
</p>
<p>... I'm going to be editor for this one.
</p>
<p>... there's been no work on reducing the number of documents
</p>
<p>Antoine: so they've not done what we're doing now (for discussing requirements)
</p>
<p>Karen: yes. They're also talking about implementation details at the same time.
</p>
<p>... and they're discussing about which solution should be the standard.
Stefanie: will we interlink our requirements with theirs?
</p>
<p>Karen: I don't know. I've started, but it's not easy.
</p>
<p>... I have started a list of our requirements that I'm unsire they tackle
</p>
<p>... I will submit it to them
</p>
<p>... I expect that they will cover all that we need
</p>
<p>Karen: it would help me if someone could read it and compare with what we have
</p>
<p>Stefanie: I can but someone else should help
</p>
<p>Antoine: I'd be willing to do it too, but maybe after Karen and Tom have compiled the list of requirements
</p>
<p>Karen: I'll try to have a first section done and then everyone can react.
</p>
<p>ACTION: put Thomas' analysis of BF on wiki
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Admin_-_Next_calls"> Admin - Next calls </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> 2015-02-03
</li>
<li> 2015-02-17 - Karen not available - at the W3C F2F
</li>
<li> 2015-03-03
</li>
</ul>



				
				
	</div>