---
layout: page
title: minutes20141028
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
<a href="#DCMI_RDF_AP_Task_Group"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">DCMI RDF AP Task Group</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#1._Coordination_with_W3C_RDF_Data_Shapes_WG"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">1. Coordination with W3C RDF Data Shapes WG</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#2._Next_step:_Create_an_RDF_ontology_for_the_DSP._.28Kai.29"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">2. Next step: Create an RDF ontology for the DSP. (Kai)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#3._Commenting_and_analyzing_use_cases_and_requirements_.28Karen.29"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">3. Commenting and analyzing use cases and requirements (Karen)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#4._UCR-Deliverable"><span class="tocnumber">1.4</span> <span class="toctext">4. UCR-Deliverable</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<h1> <span class="mw-headline" id="DCMI_RDF_AP_Task_Group">DCMI RDF AP Task Group</span>
</h1>
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/RDF_Application_Profiles" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles</a>
</p>
<p><b>Meeting date</b>: Oct 28, 2014
</p>
<p><b>Meeting link</b>: <a href="https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=MEPQL0H3FJIDJB3D2ENNUCM2VH-JV0D&amp;rnd=348706.37980" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=MEPQL0H3FJIDJB3D2ENNUCM2VH-JV0D&amp;rnd=348706.37980</a>
</p>
<p><b>Etherpad</b>: <a href="http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-28-10-2014" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-28-10-2014</a>
</p>
<p><b>Attendees</b>: Adrian, Karen, Valentine, Antoine, Corey, Kai, Stefanie, Lars, Evelyn
</p>
<p><b>Regrets</b>: Mark M
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="1._Coordination_with_W3C_RDF_Data_Shapes_WG">1. Coordination with W3C RDF Data Shapes WG</span>
</h2>
<p>Report from first W3C Shapes working group meeting [Karen]
</p>
<p><a href="https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A1=ind1410&amp;L=dc-architecture#33" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A1=ind1410&amp;L=dc-architecture#33</a>
</p>
<p>TPAC meeting: Oct. 30-31, Santa Clara, CA <a href="http://www.w3.org/2014/11/TPAC/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/2014/11/TPAC/</a>
</p>
<ul>
<li> day 1: general discussion
</li>
<li> day 2: discussion requirements
</li>
<li> DCMI is participating in W3C WG
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li> Karen will attend Oct 30-31 (and take copious notes)
</li>
<li> Next RDF AP meeting (Nov. 11) - Report back and discussion about what this means for us
</li>
</ul>
<p>charter: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2014/rds/charter" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/2014/rds/charter</a>
</p>
<p>discussion list: <a href="http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-shapes/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-shapes/</a>
</p>
<p>W3C task group has been instantiated; will be meeting at W3C Technical meeting. <a href="http://www.w3.org/2014/11/TPAC/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/2014/11/TPAC/</a> 
</p>
<p>Karen: DCMI will have official representation at the W3C WG. I will go to the F2F
</p>
<ul><li> Eric said that that the first day will be general discussion
</li></ul>
<ul><li> the second day will be devoted to look at our requirements
</li></ul>
<ul><li> So we need to determine what our direction is going to be
</li></ul>
<ul><li> What we contribute to the DC community.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> We're up in the air
</li></ul>
<ul><li> In the meantime we have to think about what we want to do
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Questions?
</li></ul>
<p>Kai: makes things easier in some ways; can have influence on the results.
</p>
<ul><li> who should be part of this group?
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Thomas is too busy. And being part of a W3C WG means quite some work.
</li></ul>
<ul><li>  On the other hand if they want to use the database it would be useful  if he officially says that he cannot do more than maintaining the DB.
</li></ul>
<p>Karen: I can represent but a second person would be very welcome
</p>
<p>Kai: especially given the interest we have in their work.
</p>
<p>Karen: anyone interested please contact Antoine and I
</p>
<p>Kai: Thomas could have a role, but it would be better if it wasn't an official commitment
</p>
<p>[Corey asks if DCMI is member of W3C]
</p>
<p>Karen: that's being worked on
</p>
<p>Corey: will they re-use the DB we work on?
</p>
<p>Karen: yes
</p>
<p>Corey: maybe we'll get comments from them! This would be great
</p>
<p>Antoine: what's the status of
</p>
<p><a href="http://www.w3.org/2014/10/rdfvalreqs/#R3" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/2014/10/rdfvalreqs/#R3</a> ?
</p>
<p>Karen: it's Eric's attempts to look at the requirements in his own way
</p>
<ul><li> it isn't an attempt to replace our DB.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> a desire for playing around with the requirements in a more flexible way than Drupal.
</li></ul>
<p>Karen: these are things we'll try to work out at the F2F this week.
</p>
<ul><li> I'll send a lot of notes!
</li></ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="2._Next_step:_Create_an_RDF_ontology_for_the_DSP._.28Kai.29">2. Next step: Create an RDF ontology for the DSP. (Kai)</span>
</h2>
<p>Karen: it's a topic from DC14
</p>
<ul><li> an RDF ontology to help develop test cases.
</li></ul>
<p>Kai: DSP is still a working draft.
</p>
<ul>
<li> Need to be able to serialize DSP in RDF.
</li>
<li> RDF Version of it, using RDF Schema to start
</li>
<li> Things (in DSP) can still be removed, missing, worked on.
</li>
</ul>
<p>Kai apparently volunteered!
</p>
<p>Kai: the start is straightforward: translating the DSP in RDF. Putting it somewhere public so that people can comment.
</p>
<p>Karen: DSP in RDF would make it easier to create test cases
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="3._Commenting_and_analyzing_use_cases_and_requirements_.28Karen.29">3. Commenting and analyzing use cases and requirements (Karen)</span>
</h2>
<p>Table of Case Studies and their analysis status:
</p>
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/RDF-Application-Profiles#Use_Cases" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF-Application-Profiles#Use_Cases</a>   
</p>
<p>New features in requirements DB:
</p>
<ul>
<li> See list of requirements that includes comments
</li>
<li> See latest edits
</li>
</ul>
<p>examples:
</p>
<p><a href="http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=requirements/requirements-comments" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=requirements/requirements-comments</a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=tracker" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=tracker</a>
</p>
<p>Karen: people have started to comment on use cases and requirements
</p>
<p>Evelyn has made comments
</p>
<p>Evelyn: sometimes we have a specific requirement on one hand.
</p>
<ul><li> on the other hand we try to generalize them
</li></ul>
<ul><li> it's confusing, how far we should go in each direction.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Some requirements look like broader terms of others.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Some requirements look like broader terms of others.
</li></ul>
<p>Karen: this is a question to keep in mind while looking at requirements.
</p>
<p>Evelyn for example <a href="http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/424" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/424</a>
</p>
<p>this is a very general requirement.
</p>
<p>Karen: we have a sort of hierarchy.
</p>
<ul><li> we may have to do clustering.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> If we consider 'core' (as in 'Dublin core') we may produce a core of patterns to present to users.
</li></ul>
<p>Evelyn: i agree it would be useful to have an additional view
</p>
<ul><li> that people can understand the granularity of requirements.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> On the other It would make it easier to compare requirements and use cases if we have details.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Broad requirements would have manu UCs linked to them. Even several UCs of a same case study
</li></ul>
<p>Karen: it sounds like there is a possibility to look for generalizable use case.
</p>
<p>Antoine: middle-out approach? With typical requirements that can be either generalized or specialized?
</p>
<p>Karen: yes, and we'd need to find a way to indicate the level.
</p>
<p>Evelyn: we need to work on the classification.
</p>
<p>Antoine: Karen it would be good to see what the W3C people think
</p>
<p>Karen: hopefully it will come out. This is already what Eric start to say. I will make sure to ask if it doesn't.
</p>
<p>Evelyn: it could be good if we could see the latest comment in the display.
</p>
<p>Kai: if you think something would enhance the DB, please tell!
</p>
<p>(starting to go through reqs at <a href="http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=requirements/requirements-comments" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=requirements/requirements-comments</a>)
</p>
<p>Karen: we don't have a 'comment' view that's only for the DC comments.
</p>
<p>Requirement 1 has no comments. Also not included in Eric's List. Karen will check
</p>
<p>Req 10: we could merge data and object property    
</p>
<p>Evelyn, antoine: agree.
</p>
<p>Difference between data and object property is also in other requirements. If we do not find a reason for this difference between object and data properties, we could merge the requirements   
</p>
<p>Req 100: General Q, that will prob come up at W3C meeting: How do our requirements fit with existing RDF functoinality. OWL &amp; Inferencing, SPIN &amp; SPARQL as examples.
</p>
<p>Karen: Quotes Kai often as saying "may not be heading toward one way of validation, but using the validation that works best for our data."
</p>
<p>Kai: Some people already using specific systems shouldn't be told to change. Can't tell them, "use something different." Needs to allow flexibility for Tool / Language cho 
</p>
<p>We should be able to highlight the specificities of each language and let people decide what they want to use. We can use DSP to at least define things from a more abstract level.
</p>
<p>Can we mix constraint languages? (question in Thomas dissertation)
</p>
<p>Karen: EricP shows examples specifiying requirements and the routine used to validate those. We could use this way of expressing things. 
</p>
<p>Kai: what do you mean by requirement then? For me it is still a constraint. We need a formal way to define a constraint. 
</p>
<p>Eric, can you post the link to the shapes demo that you showed me?
</p>
<p><a href="http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/FancyShExDemo?schemaURL=Examples/Issue-simple-annotated.shex&amp;dataURL=test/Issue-pass-date.ttl" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/FancyShExDemo?schemaURL=Examples/Issue-simple-annotated.shex&amp;dataURL=test/Issue-pass-date.ttl</a>
</p>
<p>Index of examples: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/Examples/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/Examples/</a>
</p>
<p>example failure <a href="http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/FancyShExDemo?schemaURL=test/Issue-js-test-date-triple.shex&amp;dataURL=test/Issue-fail-date.ttl&amp;colorize=1" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/FancyShExDemo?schemaURL=test/Issue-js-test-date-triple.shex&amp;dataURL=test/Issue-fail-date.ttl&amp;colorize=1</a>
</p>
<p>Validating an "issued" shape. Validation failing because, in schema there's callouts validating that issue date &amp; modified date are in the right order
</p>
<p>Call-outs are to semantic actions in other languages. This is calling out to sparql to test that reproduced on is less than reported on: 
</p>
<p>	            %sparql{ ?s ex:reportedOn ?rpt . FILTER (?o &gt; ?rpt) %}  
</p>
<p>Kai: Formulation of constraints should be part of the data model. Intuitively understandable (but "intuitive" is subjective)
</p>
<p>- Extensibility is already covered in two requirements: R-106 (Extensible Constraint Language : <a href="http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/137" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/137</a> ) &amp; R-112 (Extensible Constraints: <a href="http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/143" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=node/143</a> )
</p>
<p>- In Eric's exmaple, the Schema is the documentation. 
</p>
<p>Q from Karen: Do we need a "more human facing" language than that schema language?
</p>
<p>Kai sees this as what we mean when we talk about DCAPs. Doesn't specify the technology to be used.
</p>
<p>Kai: Perhaps comments still needed
</p>
<p>Eric: First example has comments: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/FancyShExDemo?schemaURL=Examples/Issue-simple-annotated.shex&amp;dataURL=test/Issue-pass-date.ttl" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/2013/ShEx/FancyShExDemo?schemaURL=Examples/Issue-simple-annotated.shex&amp;dataURL=test/Issue-pass-date.ttl</a>
</p>
<p>Kai: Concern about code and comments getting out of sync if they are maintained separately.
</p>
<p>Corey: shex can contain comments; worry about extensions because those could be in different languages and how can you document them?
</p>
<p>Kai: when you move from your schema to code, you can't explain to humans.
</p>
<p>Eric: there will always be something outside of your core expressivity; find the line between complexity and human expressivity
</p>
<p>irc.w3.org#shapes to follow read-only onThurs &amp; Fridyay
</p>
<p>w3 rules will not, for example, compare dates - so we have higher expressivity requirements than w3 is likely to meet.
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="4._UCR-Deliverable">4. UCR-Deliverable</span>
</h2>
<p>Are there comments left for the first the deliverable?
</p>
<p>Comments from Karens Mail (Oct 1, 2014) on EDM use cases:
</p>
<p>Suggestion to change wording.
</p>
<p>Now:
</p>
<p>1. Some EDM classes imply the use of properties. If the class is used these properties should be used. 
</p>
<p>2. EDM provides a list of mandatory properties per classes. However,  there are some conditions on certain classes requiring the use of at  least one of the mandatory properties."
</p>
<p>Better:
</p>
<p>1. Certain EDM properties are required when there is a subject that is  an instance of a particular class." 
</p>
<p>Note: The comments affect use case descriptions in the database. Should we move the discussion there so that those who have written the use cases can change the wording?
</p>
<p>Note from Evelyn that Comments on the deliverable  should be in by end of October
</p>
<p>Karen sends an mail to remind people to comment
</p>
<p>Finalisation by next week
</p>
<p>5. Next steps
</p>
<p>ONGOING: indicate which next steps you think are important, and which you are willing to work on.
</p>
<p>PROPOSAL: add a "+" by items you think we should consider; add your name to a task you are willing to work on
</p>
<p>Let's try this format: [x,x] (add your x in the brackets
</p>
<p>[Joe, Mary] (add your name in the brackets)
</p>
<p>This  is an uncensored round-up of ideas about next steps for this group.  Many/most of these have come up during hallway discussions at DC2014.  Add any others that come to your mind.
</p>
<ul><li> Look at and comment on all of the DC use cases and requirements. [x,x,x, x, x] [Karen, Evelyn]
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Go through remaining case studies and add use cases and requirements to requirements database [] [] (Antoine: is it the same as ' read through other case studies' below?)
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Compare requirements and capabilities of the DSP; what's missing from the DSP? is anything in DSP not needed? [x, x,x, x, x, x] [Thomas] [Karen]
</li></ul>
<p>(
Informal list being created at: <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/RDF_Application_Profiles/DSPanalysis#DSP_for_RDF" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/DSPanalysis#DSP_for_RDF</a>
</p>
<ul><li> Read through the other case studies and see if there are any requirements that we haven't noted yet [ x, x] [Karen has started]
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Develop  a light-weight AP as a core (a la' BIBFRAME profiles; this follows Eric  Miller's proposal on Thursday afternoon that a simiple basis and then  "cascading APs" similar to cascading style sheets that allow people to  get into greater levels of detail and validation. [x, x,x, x] []
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Develop DSP/OWL2 patterns for some/many common cases [x,x, x, x] [Karen,Thomas]
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Definition of an RDF application profile [x, x,x,x, x, x, x] [] 
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Create a few light-weight APs that people can use as examples/templates [x] [] (Antoine: is it more than 'develop a light-weight AP'?)
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Implement an automatic vaidation of each constraint expressed using the redefined DSP [x, x] [Thomas]
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Go through remaining of requirements according to Eric's recommendations [x] [Thomas] (Antoine: is it different from the two first bullets?)
</li></ul>
<ul><li> Go through remaining of requirements classification according to Karen's and Eric's recommendations [x, x] [Thomas]
</li></ul>
<p>Questions:
</p>
<p>These are questions that we need to discuss. Please put your [x] by  those you consider to be the MOST IMPORTANT. Add others that you think  of.
</p>
<ul>
<li> Is our goal to define a core for validation? [x, x,x, x, x]
</li>
<li> Is our goal to fix the DSP? (Antoine: I think all the work currently happening goes a long way at identifying possible flaws of DSP and identifying solutions to meet the same requirements than DSP in the RDF world, which is a first step)
</li>
<li> Is our goal to create a standard for application profiles [x,x]? (antoine: perhaps we would position ourselves as working on 'best practices' first: e.g. how to use ShEx/SPIN/whatever to represent typical constraints in APs)
</li>
<li> Can we create a model AP [x]? 
</li>
<li> Can we create an input form for APs?
</li>
<li> Do we want to add something related to data quality? Align requirements with some kind of data quality categories [x,x]
</li>
<li> Do we want create errors messages corresponding to the validation requirements
</li>
<li> How do we want to document the intentions  of our application profiles? (Task from the charter: "Best practices  for documenting the intention behind application profiles") Note that this work could bring a template re-usable by the whole DCMI community. It comes back to the idea How to document AP? [x,x,x]
</li>
</ul>



				
				
	</div>