---
layout: page
title: minutes20150827
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<pre>
DCMI RDF AP Task Group
http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles
Meeting date: Aug 27, 2015
Meeting link: https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M1RMXAWHCVXID8E5NEAFH8K88R-JV0D&amp;rnd=233032.37264
Meeting minutes: https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-27-08-2015

Attendees: Karen, Antoine, Valentine, Corey
Regrets:  Hugo
    
AGENDA:
    
    Admin:
        we have all minutes expect June 4
        ACTION: antoine to paste his archive there
    
1.   Deliverables for publication
 a. Use Cases
 http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/UCR_Deliverable
 b. Requirements
 http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/Requirements       

ACTION: Karen to coordinate with Stuart on announcement - probably needs
 something written up, esp. regarding coordination with W3C
 DONE: Stuart is thinking that they should be listed on the "recommended
 resources page on DCMI web site:
     http://dublincore.org/documents/#recommendedresources
 
 We don't need to do anything else!
 
 2. Requirement database
ACTION: Antoine to create dumps and link them from the wiki pages - Valentine will contact Stuart.

We couldn't upload it to the wiki.
Valentine: Stuart is the one who could help

ACTION: Thomas change PURL redirect
--DONE
Do our deliverables refer to the right URL?

ACTION: antoine will change links on our home page and the two deliverables.

3. Alignment with W3C work

Review of SHACL document prior to F2F?
Karen: The W3C group has progressed.
But single person has written the draft

There are core features that all SHACL implementations have to conform
... and then advanced features
... They all refer to properies
... But we have requirements that relate to classes.
... I've asked Holger
... he said it should be in the second part. I..e with templates, not core
... We should decide whether we want to push
... I don't understand why people would not need this
... Europeana needs them?

Antoine: we lack time
... could be thatsome validation (class-based) can be done with the properties

Corey: why does this have to be formulated in terms of classes?

ACTION: Karen to create a wiki page with two requirements that we feel may not be covered by SHACL. 
R-209, R-7 and R-225
Valenitne and Antoine will create the test case ans will put them there.

Others requirements that may not be addressed by SHACL's core are related to our more general notion of AP

Maybe we can come back to the W3C later with more requirments, after we see how the process goes for the first couple of requirements

And send at the public list if there's not much reaction on the WG

It would be great if people could read the draft
Not so much time

Comparison of W3C and DCMI requirements:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bCpQVyxI-N2Ca83umvQD8OKTdsDyG6Sz-E8Qo3v8ynM/

Hugo's email with suggestions: https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;41aa27ca.1505
ACTION: group to tackle by email:
- requirements taken from W3C which apparently donâ€™t have a match in DC
- suggestions on the mapping from DC to W3C

Eric Prud'hommeaux has an action on human-friendly syntax
It could be integrated in our idea of an AP.
The action is still pending. They might be working on a parallel application.

Recent discussion: re adding ability to check that IRI has certain attributes based
on dereferencing:https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-data-shapes-wg/2015Aug/

Optimization requirements for boolean combinations: 
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;e018b30.1508
--CLOSED

SHACL and RDF: SHACL is written in SHACL and cannot be processed with
tools designed for RDF. Is this a problem for us?
Email thread on Darwin Core, SHACL, and APs

Turtle file for SHACL:
    https://github.com/w3c/data-shapes/blob/gh-pages/shacl/shacl.shacl.ttl
This is meta-modeling, not so urgent.
Could be used for forms.
What would we have for users who'd like to create SHACL
Hand-created RDF shouldn't be our focus
It's about creating RDF within open-source tools
Corey will edit SHACL in text editors

We need to wait until implementers do something with SHACL - Tom, Greg...

4. Coming conferences: DC, TPDL, SWIB

None of us going to DCMI

Corey attending a Hydra meeting on how all this connects

5. AOB

X. Polishing requirements
ACTION: Antoine to look at unclear requirements in Hugo's email
--ONGOING: only one requirement remains unclear: https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;8c92de00.1506


X. Planning for AP development   

Look at Corey/Tom/Karen document and see how it fits into this in terms of defining the scope of an AP.
    http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/blendingDoc
Do we need a connection with the next LDP?

ACTION: Corey to record a picture before the Minnesota discussion, on AP, 'de-referencing', 'graph definition'. See https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-13-08-2015

Lars' new requirement, Discussed in previous call: https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-18-06-2015
ACTION: Antoine to sum up and email the discussion. [on the differences with other requirements] And put the case and requirement in our database.

X. Validation. Need for testing the SHACL technology
Provide one test case (e.g. on validating Europeana data) to W3C.

X. Express requirements as RDF, mapping between DSP and our requirements

X. Coordination with BIBFRAME
Thomas' evaluation of BIBFRAME AP
http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/BibframeAnalysis

X. Coordination with Hydra, Fedora
Hydra Metadata Working Group: https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/hydra/Hydra+Metadata+Working+Group
Portland Common Data Model: https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Portland+Common+Data+Model
ACTION: Karen: post this link to W3C group - on hold until W3C group gets to the right point

X. Glossary - postponed until we have time!

</pre>



				
				
	</div>