---
layout: page
title: minutes20160128
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<pre>
DCMI RDF AP Task Group
http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles
Meeting date: Jan 28, 2016. NOTE NEW TIME: 8am PST, 11am EST, 5pm CET.
Meeting link: https://plus.google.com/events/cbfk1vq2u5goc9g54t0ftf7e634
Meeting minutes: https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-28-01-2016

Attendees: Antoine, Valentine, Karen, Corey, ThomasH, Lars, TomB, TomJ
Regrets: Hugo
    
AGENDA: (in italics: pre-SWIB items that look still useful)
    
1. Admin
Continuing the group with priorities identified at SWIB: http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/SWIB2015_breakout
    From Valentine: DCMI technical board is ok.
    They would like 
    - a "brief statement detailing the next steps for the group and maybe identify a new deliverable to cover the next period of work..
    - "formalise the closure of the current work with a brief of 1-2 pages summarising the first outcomes with pointers to the deliverables and wiki". Could be used for dissemination on LODLAM, CODE4Lib...
    
ACTION: Karen and Antoine to act sending the material that the DCMI tech group requires.


2. Alignment with W3C Data Shapes

- W3C activity report (Karen)

* A lot of changes to the spec. New version coming in the next 2 weeks
* Things specific to topbraid implementation have been removed -- some simplification
* Working on getting a full test suite. Hugo's &amp; Valentine's work should allow us to participate in tests
* there might not be a simplified language based on Shex
* Users will likely put an interface in front of SHACL if they need simplicity
* W3C needs two implementation
* there's no one else than Topbraid
* Q about timeline: Already slipped, but end of 2016 is target.
Tom: if there was a Ruby implementation this year it would be ok?
Karen: not sure
Tom: I will take it to the list. Maybe Gregg Kellogg could help
ACTION: Tom Johnson to ask the group about the RDF Ruby RDF core team implementing SHACL
Karen: there wil be a call for comments
... it would be good if members of this group could react and forward it
TomB: Is shex posibly simpified layer in front of shaql? 
* Karen: No. Shex is not just a langauge, it's a whole system, and not compatible with SHAQL...
* Antoine: Is group also looking for vocab implementations? Use Cases?
* Karen: Is that the test suite? 
* More like a business focus case


- EDM SHACL activity report (Valentine/Hugo)

Europeana SHACL test file: https://github.com/hugomanguinhas/europeana/tree/master/edm-shapes/src/main/resources/etc/edm/shapes
EDM validation rules: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1dI29hgckyHn3B0h5shmbYX3jcp3PZfX7TA30Ohp_dMI/edit

Valentine: started before holidays
... from the sheet with Stefanie and Evelyn
... Hugo started with using TopBraid and then some code
... code to test the validation against topbraid
... This launches topbraid with internal ruleset. Avoids topbraid UI: 
    https://github.com/hugomanguinhas/europeana/blob/master/edm-shapes/src/test/java/eu/europeana/edm/shapes/RunValidator.java
... he also made a small presentation about the principles of SHACL
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ajP1bKpn8Z7XEOVeadxDCxhXMgyl3DAkK_yzuWJBa0g/edit#
... There are currently 31 rules
... currently a mix between rules that are in our XML Schema (e.g. that values are literals, cardinality)
... with some more stuff (checking mandatory properties, check on properties that require ISO codes
... they corrspond to our formalized requirement
... In the sheet I've added a reference to our requirements (in the database)
... there are also 'warning' rules, more like data qualtiy checke
... Right now all this is in one file
... it's not easy to read
... maybe Karen for the test case will prefer to split the file
... Other point: maybe later we can look at how Hugo has implemented the rules using SHACL
... several ways were possible (e.g. how to put the rules in one Shape)
... also a question about what extra metadtaa to add to the rules.
... maybe also the error message could be discussed.

Corey: is there a documentation about the correspondence between lines in the SHACL and the rules in the spreadsheet?
Valentine: right now no. But one can do the matching via the requirement
... Hugo has added lines in his file refering to this.
... Currently in the skos:scopeNote
... there's also a dc:description describing the rule

Corey: we could go the other direction: from the rules in the spreadsheet to ranges of lines of SHACL files
... I could do it
Valentine: Hugo has also made up IDs that are somehow meaningful
... which could relate to the work on classification
... The problem is the future: if we don't use the spreasheet how to document?

Useful next steps:
* Are there diff ways to formulate the same rule?
* Actually validating against sample data using these rules
* Recommendations on writing these files. Best practices for _using_ this
 

Antoine: we shoudl be careful when making reference to rows
Tom: Hugo has used dc:description it might be good practice to add a dc:identifier for stable reference
Valentine [sorry I couldn't get it]
Karen: there might be something in SHACL, next to sh:label
... so we may not need dc - but we may want dc!
... these propertis may not end up in thebase language
Valentine: Hugo has used sh:severity but maybe it's more about error messages
Karen: yes. There are documentation properties next to it.
... at the point it was rdfs:label and rdfs:comment
kc: OK to share this with the W3C group?
Valentine: I think so
... if you think the coveage of requirements is good.
Karen: yes at least we could say we are working on it
Antoine: I agree we can share it
... it would be good to have input especially ont he way to split it
... this is the obvious next work item
Karen: there is a test case folder and a test case format
... I've put all our previous stuff in a sub-folder
... All the other test have been made by Holger

ACTION: europeana to formalize the open questions that Valentine told us about
* 2 lines of work -- working on the rules; working on how to explain and document
AOB: Discussion on error messages 
Valentine: Karen is the W3C also working on this?
Karen: they agreed on 3 top-level error types. Then it's up to you.
... it's possible to subclass the existing 3.


- How to organize further the testing of SHACL technology?
Note: there will be a formal test structure provided - not clear yet. But it should be possible to translate from what we have to that.
DCMI repository in W3C Data Shapes Test Suite by Karen:
https://github.com/w3c/data-shapes/tree/gh-pages/data-shapes-test-suite/tests/dcmi
Karen: anyone else here feels like they can test? (others than Europeana)
(silence)
... I'm encouraging that
Tom: DPLA may work on it, but no promise!


2015 Comparison of W3C and DCMI requirements:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bCpQVyxI-N2Ca83umvQD8OKTdsDyG6Sz-E8Qo3v8ynM/
Hugo's email with suggestions: https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;41aa27ca.1505
ACTION: group to tackle by email:
- requirements taken from W3C which apparently donâ€™t have a match in DC
- suggestions on the mapping from DC to W3C

Thread on W3C/DC requirement coverage, with Thomas doc
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;539e5b2b.1512

Karen: this would come out from a test.
Antoine: if the tests are complete wrt our requirement
Karen: the test would be good.
Corey: it seems better to wait, cf Lars new requirement, and Tom and my questions about graph selection
Valentine: graph selection also comes as an issue in the Europeana work.
Tom: plus the computational costs.

Group resolves to wait until more progress on other work items

3. New requirements and APs?

Karen: I have posted two LDP-related requirement
http://w3c.github.io/data-shapes/data-shapes-ucr/#uc31-ldp-post-content-to-container-of-a-certain-shape
http://w3c.github.io/data-shapes/data-shapes-ucr/#uc38-describing-and-validating-ldp
Corey: this relates to graph selection
... build data that one wants to validate and pass it to the validator.
Karen: yes.
Corey: we need to work on this and decide if it's in scope for this DCMI group.

Lars: my requirement is connected to SHACL
... but it's very much focused on http.
... I need to read the two use case
... I see there is a new I-D that uses http "accept-post" header
Corey, Tom: it's not part of the http spec, it's part of the LDP spec
Lars: different from "accept-put"
Here's the proposal draft: 
    https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-wilde-accept-post-00
And here's the LDP definition:
    https://www.w3.org/TR/ldp/#header-accept-post

- Lars' requirement for negotiation on shapes
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A1=ind1512&amp;L=DC-ARCHITECTURE#7

- Miika Alonen's AP
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;c364c4f8.1509


4. Coming conferences and collaborations
    
- has there been recent Hydra talks about RDF APs?
    
- Mariana's Call for Chapters - Book "Developing Metadata Shemas and Application Profiles"
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;1377d958.1601
    
- DC 2016, TPDL 2016, other?
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;d322e167.1601


5. AOB


Pre-SWIB agenda points not merged in agenda [material for chairs / coming calls]

X. Polishing 2015 requirements
ACTION: Antoine to look at unclear requirements in Hugo's email
--ONGOING: only one requirement remains unclear: https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=DC-ARCHITECTURE;8c92de00.1506

X Requirement database archival
ACTION: Antoine to create dumps and link them from the wiki pages - Valentine will contact Stuart.
We couldn't upload it to the wiki.
Valentine: Stuart is the one who could help

X. Planning for AP development   
Look at Corey/Tom/Karen document and see how it fits into this in terms of defining the scope of an AP.
    http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/blendingDoc
Do we need a connection with the next LDP?
ACTION: Corey to record a picture before the Minnesota discussion, on AP, 'de-referencing', 'graph definition'. See https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-13-08-2015

X Lars' new requirement, Discussed in previous call: https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-18-06-2015
ACTION: Antoine to sum up and email the discussion. [on the differences with other requirements] And put the case and requirement in our database.

X. Express requirements as RDF, mapping between DSP and our requirements

X. Coordination with BIBFRAME
Thomas' evaluation of BIBFRAME AP: http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles/BibframeAnalysis

X. Coordination with Hydra, Fedora
Hydra Metadata Working Group: https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/hydra/Hydra+Metadata+Working+Group
Portland Common Data Model: https://wiki.duraspace.org/display/FF/Portland+Common+Data+Model
ACTION: Karen: post this link to W3C group - on hold until W3C group gets to the right point
</pre>



				
				
	</div>