---
layout: page
title: Agenda for the Community meeting in Lisbon
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<h3> <span class="mw-headline" id="DCMI_Vocabulary_Management_Community_Meeting_in_Lisbon.2C_Thurs._Sept._5.2C_2013">DCMI Vocabulary Management Community Meeting in Lisbon, Thurs. Sept. 5, 2013</span>
</h3>
<p>DC-2013 Agenda: Vocabulary Management Community
</p>
<p>Thursday, September 5, 2013, 14:30-16:00
</p>
<ul><li>1. Brief review of the current work of the Community [Diane]
</li></ul>
<p>Including brief review of the report from The Hague, highlighting issues that arose <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/DC-2011_Vocabulary_Special_Session/Meeting_Report" class="external autonumber" rel="nofollow">[1]</a>
</p>
<p><br>
</p>
<ul><li>2. Review and Discussion of the Vocabulary Management System Task Group Report and its recommendations and discussion of possible next steps.(<a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/Draft_Vocabulary_Management_System_Task_Group_Report" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/Draft_Vocabulary_Management_System_Task_Group_Report</a>) [Gordon Dunsire, TG co-chair]
</li></ul>
<p><br>  
</p>
<ul><li>3. Briefing on available commercial and open source vocabulary tools. Joseph Busch, of Taxonomy Strategies (and a long-time DC Community member).
</li></ul>
<p><br>
</p>
<ul><li>4. Short report on the project undertaken by the Open Metadata Registry (OMR) and the Asset Description Metadata Schema (ADMS) group collecting asset descriptions for European projects (<a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/asset/adms/home" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/asset/adms/home</a>) [Gordon Dunsire and Diane Hillmann]
</li></ul>
<p><br>     
</p>
<ul><li>5. Continuing activity for 2013/2014 [Diane Hillmann, Interim Coordinator]
</li></ul>
<p>Prior attempts to get activity started in some crucial areas have been met by a less than overwhelming response. If this community is to be primarily a place where reports and briefings are held, but with no activities to make use of the incredible talents gathered together here, then we should request a change in our charge, and go our separate ways for another year. If we want to use our talents to fill in some considerable gaps in documentation and recommended practice, then we'll need to build some consensus on activities we should be doing, and identify leaders and other volunteers ready to move forward after the conference.
</p>
<p><br>
Possible topics
</p>
<ul><li>
<ul><li>a. There has been interest expressed in considering how the translations of Dublin Core might be evaluated for a more modern, group based management process (<a href="http://dublincore.org/resources/translations/index.shtml" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://dublincore.org/resources/translations/index.shtml</a>) .   IFLA has been doing some exploration of multilingual vocabulary management and their experiences might be useful to look at.
</li></ul>
</li></ul>
<ul><li>
<ul><li>b. Is there interest in reviewing the DCMI Namespace Policy <a href="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-namespace/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-namespace/</a> and considering where updating is a good idea?
</li></ul>
</li></ul>
<ul><li>
<ul><li>c. There have been discussions in various groups about whether this group should attempt to build some best practices documentation in a few areas of interest:  vocabulary extension, multilingual issues/translation management, etc. As part of this discussion, Gordon Dunsire will report briefly on the work of the W3C Best Practices for Multilingual Linked Open Data (BP-MLOD) group.
</li></ul>
</li></ul>
<p><br>
Please be prepared to volunteer to lead or work on a task group on an issue you care about!
</p>


				
				
	</div>