---
layout: page
title: BMTG meeting 26 Apr 2012
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/Bibliographic_Metadata_Task_Group" title="Bibliographic Metadata Task Group">Bibliographic Metadata Task Group</a> meeting, 26 April 2012
</p>
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Announcement"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Announcement</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#Venue"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Venue</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-4"><a href="#Background_documents"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">Background documents</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-5"><a href="#Joining_instructions"><span class="tocnumber">5</span> <span class="toctext">Joining instructions</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-6"><a href="#Wifi"><span class="tocnumber">6</span> <span class="toctext">Wifi</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-7"><a href="#Twitter"><span class="tocnumber">7</span> <span class="toctext">Twitter</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-8"><a href="#Virtual_participation"><span class="tocnumber">8</span> <span class="toctext">Virtual participation</span></a></li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Announcement"> Announcement </span>
</h2>
<p>The DCMI Bibliographic Metadata Task Group will be holding its inaugural Meeting in London on <b>April 26, 2012</b>, in conjunction with the <a href="http://dublincore.org/groups/vocabulary-management/" class="external text" rel="nofollow">DCMI Vocabulary Management Community</a>. The meetings will be followed on April 27 by a seminar examining the impact of the London Meeting of 2007, which brought DCMI and the Joint Steering Committee for Development of RDA (JSC) together to build the RDA Vocabularies. The DCMI meetings will be free and open to all.
</p>
<p>The <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/Full_announcement#Announcement_of_a_major_conference_on_libraries_and_the_Semantic_Web.2C_26-27_2012" class="external text" rel="nofollow">full announcement</a> of the meetings is available and the agenda for the meeting of this community will be developed on the wiki and the Task Group discussion list over the coming months.
</p>
<p>Update (10 April 2012): The meeting of the Task Group on 26 April 2012 is now fully subscribed. Some places for the seminar Five years on are still available. For further information about the meeting and seminar, and online seminar registration, see <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://dcevents.dublincore.org/BibData/fyo" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Seminar: Five years on</a>
</p>
<p>Update (17 April 2012): The agenda and other details of the meeting of April 26, 2012 are available.
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Venue"> Venue </span>
</h2>
<p>Panizzi Room, British Library, St Pancras, London
</p>
<p>09.30 - 12.30
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Agenda"> Agenda </span>
</h2>
<p>09.30-09.45: Welcome and introductions
</p>
<p>09.45-10.45: Application profiles
</p>
<p>Including:
</p>
<ul>
<li> Current development of the Dublin Core Abstract Model and Dublin Core Application Profile; aggregated statements and Syntax Encoding Schemes; Vocabulary Encoding Schemes
</li>
<li> Current status of the ISBD Application Profile
</li>
<li> Development of an RDA Application Profile
</li>
<li> Issues
</li>
<li> Related tasks for 2012
</li>
<li> Lightning talk by Tom Baker on named graphs and paper tools
</li>
</ul>
<p>10.45-11.00: Break
</p>
<p>11.00-12.00: Alignments and mappings
</p>
<p>Including:
</p>
<ul>
<li> Current activity:
<ul>
<li> ISBD-RDA and unconstrained properties
</li>
<li> ISBD-RDA/ONIX Framework
</li>
<li> RDA-FR family
</li>
<li> FR family consolidation
</li>
<li> MARC21
</li>
<li> UNIMARC
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li> Issues
</li>
<li> Related tasks for 2012
</li>
</ul>
<p>12.00-12.30: Multilingual environment
</p>
<p>Including:
</p>
<ul>
<li> IFLA guidelines on namespace translations
</li>
<li> Technical issues
</li>
<li> Related tasks for 2012
</li>
</ul>
<p>12.30: Close. Lunch
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Background_documents"> Background documents </span>
</h2>
<ul>
<li> <a href="https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A0=dc-architecture" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Discussions on DCAM/DCAP in DC-ARCHITECTURE</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="http://www.rda-jsc.org/docs/6JSC-Chair-5.pdf" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Proposed methodology for ISBD-RDA mappings</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="http://www.rda-jsc.org/docs/5chair10.pdf" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Proposed methodology for ISBD-RDA/ONIX Framework mappings</a> 
</li>
<li> <a href="https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1204&amp;L=DC-RDA&amp;P=716" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Draft mapping for ISBD-RDA/ONIX Framework attached to email</a>
</li>
<li> <a href="https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1204&amp;L=DC-RDA&amp;P=5240" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Draft guidelines for IFLA namespace translations attached to email</a>
</li>
</ul>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Joining_instructions"> Joining instructions </span>
</h2>
<p>The meeting will be held in the Panizzi Room, which is a non-public area of the British Library. Delegates will be issued with passes and escorted to and from the room.
</p>
<p>Please arrive by 09.15 at the British Library <b>Staff Entrance on Midland Road</b> and report to the Reception Desk. <i>Do not go to the main entrance</i>; you will just be redirected to Midland Road.
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Wifi"> Wifi </span>
</h2>
<p>Free wifi will be available; access details will be given at the beginning of the meeting.
</p>
<p>Note: This is not the free wifi service offered to users of the British Library. The meeting room is outside of the range of the normal service, so usernames and passwords obtained by pre-registering via the British Library website will not work.
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Twitter"> Twitter </span>
</h2>
<p>The hash tag is #BibNext (includes the DCMI Vocabulary Management Community meeting and the Seminar).
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Virtual_participation"> Virtual participation </span>
</h2>
<p>A monitored IRC channel will be provided for virtual attendees to channel questions to speakers and participants at relevant points.
</p>
<p>The IRC channel can be found at: <a href="irc://irc.freenode.net/#dcmi" class="external free" rel="nofollow">irc://irc.freenode.net/#dcmi</a>
</p>
<p>Audio/video of the meeting will presented as a live stream at: <a href="http://www.livestream.com/dcmi" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.livestream.com/dcmi</a>
</p>
<p>The audio/video recording will be made available for future reference.
</p>


				
				
	</div>