---
layout: page
title: Meeting Notes for the Community meeting in Lisbon
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<p>DC-2013 Vocabulary Management Community meeting, DC-2013
</p>
<p>Thursday, September 5, 2013, 14:30-16:00
</p>
<p>1. Brief review of the current work of the Community [Diane Hillmann, Interim Coordinator]
</p>
<p>The Vocabulary Management Community was born after DC-2011 in The Hague, after a fruitful day long meeting exploring current issues in vocabulary management. Those issues were described fully in its meeting notes. (<a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/DC-2011_Vocabulary_Special_Session/Meeting_Report" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/DC-2011_Vocabulary_Special_Session/Meeting_Report</a>) The initial Community meeting in London in April 2012 provided further discussion of those issues. The current meeting, focusing on a few of the issues identified in 2011 and additional ones identified in the interim, was intended to identify issues with sufficient interest to move ahead with Task Groups. 
</p>
<p>Diane announced to the group that she was resigning from the position of DCMI Vocabulary Maintenance Officer and Interim Coordinator of the Vocabulary Management Community as of the end of September 2013, and suggested that anyone interested in carrying on those responsibilities contact Stuart Sutton.
</p>
<p>2. Review and Discussion of the Vocabulary Management System Task Group Report and its recommendations and discussion of possible next steps.(<a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/Draft_Vocabulary_Management_System_Task_Group_Report" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/Draft_Vocabulary_Management_System_Task_Group_Report</a>) [Gordon Dunsire, TG co-chair]
</p>
<p>Gordon went over some of the most important requirements for the Task Group, and discussed the group's report. The group found that very few integrated systems met the functional requirements that had been developed, though the need was described as urgent for DCMI. Because none of the available systems were a perfect fit, the TG suggested that appropriate functional components be chosen by the Vocabulary Management Officer and the Chief Information Officer, and a year of experimentation be set up with a report at the end of that time. Gordon pointed out that the W3C has expressed an intention to explore these issues for their purposes, but their announcement (<a href="http://www.w3.org/2013/04/vocabs/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/2013/04/vocabs/</a>) is very preliminary. The group discussed briefly the question of how general or specific the DCMI needs are, and the big questions remain about next steps for DCMI to meet its requirements.
</p>
<p>3. Briefing on available commercial and open source vocabulary tools. Joseph Busch, of Taxonomy Strategies (and a long-time DC Community member).
</p>
<p>Joseph talked about some commercially available systems and how they related to the Vocabulary Management System Task Group requirements. He reiterated the value of the current requirements, but suggested that they might need prioritization. System costs are a factor: the current options at the cheap end of the spectrum lack namespace management capabilities. Most of the vendors discussed provide the ability to use a default namespace, which DCMI doesn't need.
</p>
<p>He suggested that there isn't as much difference between schema and value vocabularies that most people assume.  He also felt that some vendors with fairly pricey products might provide services at reduced cost. His slides are at: <a href="http://dcevents.dublincore.org/IntConf/dc-2013/paper/view/130/180" class="external autonumber" rel="nofollow">[1]</a>
</p>
<p>4. Short report on the project undertaken by the Open Metadata Registry (OMR) and the Asset Description Metadata Schema (ADMS) group collecting asset descriptions for European projects (<a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/asset/adms/home" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/asset/adms/home</a>) [Gordon Dunsire and Diane Hillmann]
</p>
<p>Gordon Dunsire gave an update on this project (<a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/ADMS/OMR_Project" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/ADMS/OMR_Project</a>). The OMR group was approached by the ADMS group, part of JoinUP, a working portal of the European Commission. The goal was to test the usefulness of their project template and how much of the OMR data was useful. After a successful small load of 6 vocabularies (3 value; 3 schema), a total of 43 published vocabularies from the OMR were uploaded (<a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/catalogue/repository/open-metadata-registry" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/catalogue/repository/open-metadata-registry</a>), including all published RDA vocabularies. In many respects this is a start on the distributed registries idea, for many years a goal of the DCMI Registry Task Group (<a href="http://wiki.metadataregistry.org/DCMI_Registry_Community" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.metadataregistry.org/DCMI_Registry_Community</a>) - DCMI is also included in the JoinUp portal (<a href="https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/catalogue/repository/dublin-core-metadata-initiative" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/catalogue/repository/dublin-core-metadata-initiative</a>).
</p>
<p>5. Continuing activity for 2013/2014 [Diane Hillmann, Interim Coordinator]
</p>
<p>After a discussion of possible priorities and the need for leadership in those areas, two groups began to coalesce:
</p>
<ul><li> A task group to explore issues around Multilingual Vocabularies, including building a best practices approach taking into consideration existing standards, work in progress, and new technologies for vocabulary management. Daniel Vila agreed to lead the group, and Alex Haffner and Eva Mendez volunteered to work with him.
</li></ul>
<ul><li> A task group to review the DCMI Namespace Policy and propose revisions to that policy to accommodate current thinking on vocabulary management and sustainability. Bernard Vatant agreed to lead this effort, and Tom Baker volunteered to assist.
</li></ul>
<p>TG charges are being prepared for approval of the DCMI Advisory Board, Any others wishing to work on either of these groups should contact the leaders of those groups.
</p>


				
				
	</div>