---
layout: page
title: 20140409
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ed_Comm.png" class="image" title="Planning Committee logo"><img alt="Planning Committee logo" src="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Ed_Comm.png" width="300" height="81"></a>
</p>
<hr>
<h5> <span class="mw-headline" id="Handbook:_Table_of_Contents"> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Handbook" title="DCMI Handbook">Handbook</a>: <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Handbook" title="DCMI Handbook">Table of Contents</a> </span>
</h5>
<dl>
<dd> ► <i><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board" title="DCMI Governing Board">Governing Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/finance" title="DCMI Governing Board/finance">Membership &amp; Finance</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/nominations" title="DCMI Governing Board/nominations">Nominations &amp; Bylaws</a> 
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board" title="DCMI Technical Board">Technical Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/usage" title="DCMI Technical Board/usage">Usage</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/standards" title="DCMI Technical Board/standards">Standards &amp; Liaisons</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/specifications" title="DCMI Technical Board/specifications">Community Specifications</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/infrastructure" title="DCMI Technical Board/infrastructure">Infrastructure Advisory Committee (IAC)</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board" title="DCMI Advisory Board">Advisory Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/meetings" title="DCMI Advisory Board/meetings">Conferences &amp; Meetings</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/documentation" title="DCMI Advisory Board/documentation">Education &amp; Outreach</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i>Management:</i> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/Exec_Committee" title="Exec Committee">Executive</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/Exec_Committee/directorate" title="Exec Committee/directorate">Directorate</a>
</dd>
</dl>
<hr>
<h1> <span class="mw-headline" id="9_April_2014:_Meeting_Summary"> 9 April 2014: Meeting Summary </span>
</h1>
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1"><a href="#Handbook:_Table_of_Contents"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Handbook: Table of Contents</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
<a href="#9_April_2014:_Meeting_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">9 April 2014: Meeting Summary</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">2.1</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3">
<a href="#Summary"><span class="tocnumber">2.2</span> <span class="toctext">Summary</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-3 tocsection-4"><a href="#Background"><span class="tocnumber">2.2.1</span> <span class="toctext">Background</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-3 tocsection-5"><a href="#Discussion"><span class="tocnumber">2.2.2</span> <span class="toctext">Discussion</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-3 tocsection-6"><a href="#Additional_details_of_what_to_think:"><span class="tocnumber">2.2.3</span> <span class="toctext">Additional details of what to think:</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-7"><a href="#Action_Items"><span class="tocnumber">2.3</span> <span class="toctext">Action Items</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-8"><a href="#Meeting_Resources_.26_References"><span class="tocnumber">2.4</span> <span class="toctext">Meeting Resources &amp; References</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<p><br>
</p>
<hr>
<h4> <span class="mw-headline" id="Agenda"> Agenda </span>
</h4>
<dl><dd> N/A
</dd></dl>
<hr>
<h4> <span class="mw-headline" id="Summary"> Summary </span>
</h4>
<p>April 9, 1014 Skype meeting
+ Updates from the April 9 Executive Committee meeting, right after the Committee meeting
</p>
<p><i>Present:</i> Ana Alice Baptista, Keven Liu, Joseph Busch, Marcia Zeng
</p>
<hr>
<h5> <span class="mw-headline" id="Background"> Background </span>
</h5>
<ul>
<li> The need for this committee. Education is one of the areas identified by DCMI Executive Committee members and Managing Director based on the previous experiences. It would be helpful to have a group of people to focus on this. 
</li>
<li> Webinar’s portability issue: DCMI had a coherent program for education and Webinars were delivered through NISO during the last two years.  The issue was that NISO Webinars are expensive to take. (MZ note: majority of the audiences were not DCMI members/active conference attenders. Which gave the impression that: 1, there existed demand for such kinds of webinars and they brought up revenues. 2, we need to give members free or low cost registration for the webinars.)
</li>
<li> Education plan: Need Webinar programs, e.g., monthly, quarterly, etc. Objectives in the series, targeted audiences, supporting materials, etc. 
</li>
<li> A related but separate committee: Conferences and Meetings.  The Regional Conferences would be another area identified to need a group to work on.  It should try to provide some framework or tool kit to make the regional conferences easier. Common set of criteria should be set.  DC annual conferences are the focal meeting places so far, but we need to look at additional ways, e.g., web-based presentation. They also need to identify tasks and find people.
</li>
<li> DCMI structural change: The big change is active engagement active members.
</li>
</ul>
<h5> <span class="mw-headline" id="Discussion"> Discussion </span>
</h5>
<ul>
<li> <b>Collaborating with other committee:</b> For the events like local seminars, should we collaborate with the other committee? -- When more details come out, we will probably work these through the AB Steering Committee and seek AB members input.
</li>
<li> <b>Outreach:</b> What are the details? – We will wait to have Stuart joining a call to give more background. Right now we are thinking the manage and strategy of using social media such as twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn.  
</li>
<li> <b>DCMI's main goal:</b> Increasing our influence? Making money? – No answer. The consensus of this skype meeting was that the goal should be on attracting people to become members of DCMI.   To deliver services to members. <i>Update (Confirmed from the Executive Committee after our skype call): Agree that DCMI’s main goal is to engage people. Understanding members’ need and delivering high quality and value services to them.</i> (Note: meanwhile, DCMI will need to be able to keep running. The budge is not big but it is an ongoing warring point.)
</li>
<li> Committee communication methods: How the announcement of chairs and members, etc. are made and how we get input from AB members?
<ol>
<li> AB listserv is the best way to communicate, such as sending the announcement, recruiting members, seeking feedback. The email address is: DC-AB@JISCMAIL.AC.UK
</li>
<li> Official Website: The Website is updated monthly through the host in South Korea.  The news of the inaugural committee chairs will be announced in the official DCMI News on the Website. In April these will also be included in the ‘Chair’s message’. <i>Update (Confirmed from the Executive Committee after our skype call): In addition to the official news of the inaugural committee chairs on DCMI website, Eric will also twit on DCMI Twitter about the committee chairs next week.</i> 
</li>
<li> Annual conference AB meeting: It will be the time to get the input face-to-face when this annual meeting is held.
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<h5> <span class="mw-headline" id="Additional_details_of_what_to_think:"> Additional details of what to think: </span>
</h5>
<ul>
<li> Audiences are not the same. 
</li>
<li> Teaching people who already practicing...
</li>
<li> What kind of training that people do?
</li>
<li> What sort of background, materials to be created to support that.  
</li>
<li> Things on the website…
</li>
<li> Structure as ‘Curriculum’? Context
</li>
<li> alternative business models (Keven)
</li>
<li> Wc3 school –kind of educational materials.
</li>
<li> It is time for linked data to apply to a lot of things to educate people.
</li>
<li> Practical people: how to use DC
</li>
<li> Engage the people in the whole world.
</li>
<li> Funding, resource
</li>
<li> Design our cutting edge plan.
</li>
<li> In conclusion: Designing the program is what we want to start.
</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<h4> <span class="mw-headline" id="Action_Items"> Action Items </span>
</h4>
<ol>
<li> Ana and Keven will have meeting(s) first, invite Stuart to join.
</li>
<li> How to design, what the long term and short term goals are, how to accomplish the goals
</li>
<li> Ana will create a folder in Dropbox
</li>
<li> A future meeting will be scheduled after Ana and Keven came up with some proposal
</li>
<li> Recruit members will be in parallel process and could be done after Ana and Keven come up with a general plan.
</li>
</ol>
<hr>
<h4> <span class="mw-headline" id="Meeting_Resources_.26_References"> Meeting Resources &amp; References </span>
</h4>
<dl><dd> None
</dd></dl>
<hr>
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Join_us-150.png" class="image" title="DCMI Handbook"><img alt="DCMI Handbook" src="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/Join_us-150.png" width="150" height="43"></a>
</p>
<p><a href="http://dublincore.org/support/#individualMember" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Click and become a DCMI member...</a>
</p>


				
				
	</div>