---
layout: page
title: minutes20140722
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/RdfAP_tg.png" class="image" title="RDF AP TG logo"><img alt="RDF AP TG logo" src="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/RdfAP_tg.png" width="200" height="141"></a>
</p>
<hr>
<h5> <span class="mw-headline" id="Handbook:_Table_of_Contents"> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Handbook" title="DCMI Handbook">Handbook</a>: <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Handbook" title="DCMI Handbook">Table of Contents</a> </span>
</h5>
<dl>
<dd> ► <i><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board" title="DCMI Governing Board">Governing Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/finance" title="DCMI Governing Board/finance">Membership &amp; Finance</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/nominations" title="DCMI Governing Board/nominations">Nominations &amp; Bylaws</a> 
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board" title="DCMI Technical Board">Technical Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/usage" title="DCMI Technical Board/usage">Usage</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/standards" title="DCMI Technical Board/standards">Standards &amp; Liaisons</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/specifications" title="DCMI Technical Board/specifications">Community Specifications</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board" title="DCMI Advisory Board">Advisory Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/meetings" title="DCMI Advisory Board/meetings">Conferences &amp; Meetings</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/documentation" title="DCMI Advisory Board/documentation">Education &amp; Outreach</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i>Management:</i> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/Exec_Committee" title="Exec Committee">Executive</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/Exec_Committee/directorate" title="Exec Committee/directorate">Directorate</a>
</dd>
</dl>
<hr>
<p><br>
</p>
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1"><a href="#Handbook:_Table_of_Contents"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Handbook: Table of Contents</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#1._Gathering_requirements:_cases_DDB.2FDM2E.2FEuropeana"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">1. Gathering requirements: cases DDB/DM2E/Europeana</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#2._Coordination_with_W3C_RDF_Data_shapes_WG_.5Brunning_item_-_keep_in_agenda.5D"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">2. Coordination with W3C RDF Data shapes WG [running item - keep in agenda]</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3"><a href="#3._Tutorials_for_various_meetings.2C_especially_DC2014"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">3. Tutorials for various meetings, especially DC2014</span></a></li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<p><br>
DCMI RDF AP Task Group
</p>
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/RDF_Application_Profiles" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles</a>
</p>
<p>Meeting date: July 22, 2014
</p>
<p>SEE CORRECTION: Meeting link: <a href="https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/meetings/join?uuid=MB17B12CLD71O1DHBFVA872G5V-JV0D" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/meetings/join?uuid=MB17B12CLD71O1DHBFVA872G5V-JV0D</a>
</p>
<p>CORRECTED MEETING LINK: 
<a href="https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M19CHP0PQNARVG6UHZ7786R7H6-JV0D&amp;rnd=613538.26021" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://meetings.webex.com/collabs/#/meetings/detail?uuid=M19CHP0PQNARVG6UHZ7786R7H6-JV0D&amp;rnd=613538.26021</a>
</p>
<p>Meeting Number:198 177 794
</p>
<p><i>Attendees</i>: Karen, Antoine, Evelyn, Diane, Jeff, Mariana, Laura, Shlomo, Stefanie, Stuart, Thomas, Valentine
Corey, Gordon, Mark, Adrian, Konstantin, Lars
Regrets: 
</p>
<p>Agenda and notes:
</p>
<p><a href="http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-22-07http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-22-07-2014-2014" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-22-07http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-22-07-2014-2014</a>
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="1._Gathering_requirements:_cases_DDB.2FDM2E.2FEuropeana">1. Gathering requirements: cases DDB/DM2E/Europeana</span>
</h2>
<p>requirements database: <a href="http://purl.org/net/rdf-validation" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://purl.org/net/rdf-validation</a>
</p>
<p>Report from the DDB/DM2E/Europeana cases and requirements.
</p>
<p>These are the first cases being analyzed and added to the database; others will be addressed later.
</p>
<p>Evelyn: We are using the rdf-validation database
</p>
<p><a href="http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/</a>
</p>
<p>Case studies that have been entered are at: <a href="http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=case-studies" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=case-studies</a>
And you can see a detailed view on case studies here: <a href="http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=case-studies/case-studies-detailed" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://lelystad.informatik.uni-mannheim.de/rdf-validation/?q=case-studies/case-studies-detailed</a>
</p>
<p>This work is being done based on an initial comparison done as a spreadsheet in Google Docs: <a href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AoN3jJ2PToabdFZDTzJmS2hNUHBMUTBHMzgzMmI5dEE&amp;usp=drive_web#gid=0" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AoN3jJ2PToabdFZDTzJmS2hNUHBMUTBHMzgzMmI5dEE&amp;usp=drive_web#gid=0</a>
</p>
<p>Evelyn: using the DB is helpful.
</p>
<p>Valentine and Stefanie are currently also adding use cases for their case studies
</p>
<p>Mark Matienzo will update DPLA case study/use cases
</p>
<p>KCoyle: maybe we should also look at some DSP requirements?
</p>
<p>AIsaac: the process is good as the use cases will help us identifying requirements for DSP
</p>
<p>KC:Should we create use cases for Bibframe? 
</p>
<p>Lars: spoke to Reinhold - agree that should invite Kevin or Eric. 
</p>
<p><b>ACTION ITEM</b>: to invite Kevin and/or Eric to provide a simple case study (+use cases). [DONE]
</p>
<p>Stanford: Phil Schreur (<a href="http://www.loc.gov/bibframe/implementation/register.html" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.loc.gov/bibframe/implementation/register.html</a>)  pschreur@stanford.edu
</p>
<p><b>ACTION ITEM</b>: Ask Phil for case study (overall) + different use cases within the case study
</p>
<p>Timeline: We expect to have the first use case presentation by September. 
</p>
<p>So far everyone is comfortable continuing the discussion on the dc-architecture mailing list, rather than creating a separate list for this purpose.
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="2._Coordination_with_W3C_RDF_Data_shapes_WG_.5Brunning_item_-_keep_in_agenda.5D">2. Coordination with W3C RDF Data shapes WG [running item - keep in agenda]</span>
</h2>
<p>prospective charter: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2014/rds/charter" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/2014/rds/charter</a>
</p>
<p>discussion list: <a href="http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-shapes/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-rdf-shapes/</a>
</p>
<p>(From last meeting) ACTION: KC send more links to W3C list
</p>
<p>principle (from Eric): not just to announce once that you're interested but instead send status reports and plans to keep folks aware of the energy behind our group. 
</p>
<p>Karen: we may have to talk about ways to extract information from our database so that it's easier to comprehend, especially when presenting it to others who have not been directly involved
</p>
<p>Evelyn: we will have this when we do a first report about the cases
</p>
<p>Karen: I see a need to synthesize and visualize the results (lists of the most common requirements, related requirements, etc.). Good presentation will make a difference
</p>
<p>Thomas: I'm trying to collect requirements from the discussion on the mailing list.
</p>
<p>Stefanie: Their draft charter indicates a start planned for September. the timing is good for us.
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="3._Tutorials_for_various_meetings.2C_especially_DC2014">3. Tutorials for various meetings, especially DC2014</span>
</h2>
<p><b>DL14 Conference London (Sept) - tutorial will include APs in general</b>
</p>
<p>outline is available at <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPu5ZvFlYkm-ops892AVRQXNxNw1ZFLEdSVlMzbknQU/edit" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPu5ZvFlYkm-ops892AVRQXNxNw1ZFLEdSVlMzbknQU/edit</a>
</p>
<p><b>DC2014 Austin (October)</b>
</p>
<ul>
<li> Thomas can give a general overview on validation (DSP, ShEx), helped by Kai and Stephanie
</li>
<li> maybe Tom and Karen can talk about DCAP
</li>
<li> Stefanie - explain use cases and requirements
</li>
</ul>
<p>Tutorial is scheduled for 1/2 day
</p>
<p>Karen: Will be coordinator of the tutorial
</p>
<p>Some content will pull from Valentine's slides when available.
</p>
<p><b>SWIB14 Bonn (Dec. 1-3)</b>
</p>
<p>Speakers: Kai (leader),  Stefanie,  Antoine
</p>


				
				
	</div>