---
layout: page
title: minutes20140708
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/RdfAP_tg.png" class="image" title="RDF AP TG logo"><img alt="RDF AP TG logo" src="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/images/RdfAP_tg.png" width="200" height="141"></a>
</p>
<hr>
<h5> <span class="mw-headline" id="Handbook:_Table_of_Contents"> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Handbook" title="DCMI Handbook">Handbook</a>: <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Handbook" title="DCMI Handbook">Table of Contents</a> </span>
</h5>
<dl>
<dd> ► <i><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board" title="DCMI Governing Board">Governing Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/finance" title="DCMI Governing Board/finance">Membership &amp; Finance</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Governing_Board/nominations" title="DCMI Governing Board/nominations">Nominations &amp; Bylaws</a> 
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board" title="DCMI Technical Board">Technical Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/usage" title="DCMI Technical Board/usage">Usage</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/standards" title="DCMI Technical Board/standards">Standards &amp; Liaisons</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Technical_Board/specifications" title="DCMI Technical Board/specifications">Community Specifications</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board" title="DCMI Advisory Board">Advisory Board</a> committees:</i> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/meetings" title="DCMI Advisory Board/meetings">Conferences &amp; Meetings</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/DCMI_Advisory_Board/documentation" title="DCMI Advisory Board/documentation">Education &amp; Outreach</a>
</dd>
<dd> ► <i>Management:</i> <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/Exec_Committee" title="Exec Committee">Executive</a> ◘ <a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wiki/Exec_Committee/directorate" title="Exec Committee/directorate">Directorate</a>
</dd>
</dl>
<hr>
<p><br>
</p>
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1"><a href="#Handbook:_Table_of_Contents"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Handbook: Table of Contents</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Agenda"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Agenda</span></a></li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<p><br>
<i>DCMI RDF AP Task Group</i>
</p>
<p><a href="http://metaweidner.github.io/dcmi-iac/wikihttp://wiki.dublincore.org/RDF_Application_Profiles" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/RDF_Application_Profiles</a>
</p>
<p>Meeting date: July 8, 2014
</p>
<p><a href="http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-09-02-2014" class="external text" rel="nofollow">Etherpad</a>
</p>
<p><br>    
<i>Attendees:</i> Thomas Bosch, Evelyn, Adrian Pohl, Karen Coyle, Antoine Isaac, Miika Alonen, Valentine, Corey Harper, Gordon Dunsire, Robina Clayphan. Mariana Malta, Diane Hillmann, Kai, Stefanie, 
</p>
<p><br>
</p>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="Agenda">Agenda</span>
</h2>
<p>1. Presentation by Thomas on requirements database work
</p>
<p>site link: <a href="http://purl.org/net/rdf-validation" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://purl.org/net/rdf-validation</a>
</p>
<p>After the presentation, the group discussed using the database to enter requirements for the use cases. The use case group (Stefanie, Valentine, Evelyn) feel that this will be more efficient than working in a spreadsheet. They will begin work this way and report back.
</p>
<p>2. Tutorials on the RDF AP work for various meetings, especially DC2014
</p>
<ul>
<li>Digital Libraries Conference in London in September:  - tutorial will include APs in general
</li>
<li>a tutorial has been proposed for SWIB (acceptance pending)
</li>
<li>The DC2014 annual conference in Austin (October 1-3) would be an appropriate place to highlight the work and have a general discussion. 
</li>
</ul>
<p><b>Plans and volunteers for DC2014</b>
</p>
<ul><li>Thomas Bosch can give a general overview on validation (DSP, ShEx), helped by Kai and Stephanie
</li></ul>
<ul><li>maybe Tom and Karen can talk about DCAP
</li></ul>
<ul><li>Stefanie - offers to explain what is meant by use cases and requirements
</li></ul>
<ul><li>Valentine will share the slides from the DL tutorial (half day tutorial is planned)
</li></ul>
<p>(outline is available at <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPu5ZvFlYkm-ops892AVRQXNxNw1ZFLEdSVlMzbknQU/edit" class="external free" rel="nofollow">https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPu5ZvFlYkm-ops892AVRQXNxNw1ZFLEdSVlMzbknQU/edit</a>)
</p>
<p><b>ACTION:</b> KC ask how long tutorial lasts at DC2014 [DONE]
</p>
<p>ANSWER: a tutorial could be anywhere from 1.5 hours to half a day or a full day.
</p>
<p>3. Coordination with W3C RDFData shape WG
</p>
<p><b>ACTION:</b> KC TO send more links to W3C list, in particular highlighting the DCMI RDF AP task group use cases, and then announcing relevant DCMI RDF AP documents as they are added to our wiki.
</p>
<p>W3C WG links:
</p>
<p>prospective charter: <a href="http://www.w3.org/2014/rds/charter" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/2014/rds/charter</a>
</p>
<p>Resource Shapes: <a href="http://www.w3.org/Submission/shapes/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/Submission/shapes/</a>
</p>
<p>ShEx primer: <a href="http://www.w3.org/Submission/shex-primer/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/Submission/shex-primer/</a>
</p>
<p>ShEx definition: <a href="http://www.w3.org/Submission/shex-defn/" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://www.w3.org/Submission/shex-defn/</a>
</p>
<p>4. POSTPONED: Discussion/getting agreement on requirements gathering process; possibly example from the use case group. [Put on next agenda.]
</p>


				
				
	</div>