---
layout: page
title: Minutes20140527
---

<div id="bodyContent">
		
		
		
		
<table id="toc" class="toc"><tr><td>
<div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1">
<a href="#AP_in_RDF_planning_meeting"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">AP in RDF planning meeting</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Roles"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">Roles</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3">
<a href="#Task_Group_Charge"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">Task Group Charge</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-3 tocsection-4"><a href="#goals"><span class="tocnumber">1.2.1</span> <span class="toctext">goals</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-3 tocsection-5"><a href="#outputs"><span class="tocnumber">1.2.2</span> <span class="toctext">outputs</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-6"><a href="#Tools"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">Tools</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-7"><a href="#Schedule"><span class="tocnumber">1.4</span> <span class="toctext">Schedule</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</td></tr></table>
<h2> <span class="mw-headline" id="AP_in_RDF_planning_meeting">AP in RDF planning meeting</span>
</h2>
<p>May 27, 2014
</p>
<p>Call of all people interested in chairing/organizing the RDFAP task group: Antoine Isaac, Karen Coyle, Kai Eckert, Thomas Bosch, Evelyn Drosch.
</p>
<p>Agenda:
</p>
<h3> <span class="mw-headline" id="Roles">Roles</span>
</h3>
<ol>
<li> co-chairs will be Antoine and Karen
</li>
<li> liaisons with technical board and  community spec committee: Kai, Valentine
</li>
<li> Evelyn and Thomas: editorial board
<ol>
<li> use case document
</li>
<li> recommendations document
</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
<h3> <span class="mw-headline" id="Task_Group_Charge"> Task Group Charge </span>
</h3>
<h4> <span class="mw-headline" id="goals">goals </span>
</h4>
<ol>
<li> make it possible to mix and match vocabularies, with some local usage, and which can use any validation scheme
</li>
<li> provide local scope notes / document your usage
</li>
<li> validation of data
</li>
<li> primarily to serve the Dublin Core community
</li>
<li> documentation for users and for machines
</li>
<li> at least one test implementation
</li>
</ol>
<p>ShEx shouldn't be the only validation technology. The AP should be compatible with different forms for validation: ShEx, DSP.
</p>
<p>Note re: Shape Expression: There won't be a formal group in W3C. Some of them may want to work with us.
</p>
<h4> <span class="mw-headline" id="outputs">outputs </span>
</h4>
<p>The RDF Application Profile Task Group will:
</p>
<ol>
<li>    gather experts from theory and practice dealing with the problem areas sketched in the introduction,
</li>
<li>   collect and describe case studies from these experts and the general public,
</li>
<li>    extract common use cases from these case studies that illustrate particular problems,
</li>
<li>   specify requirements to be fulfilled in order to adequately solve these problems and meet the use cases,
</li>
<li>    investigate existing best-practices regarding these requirements,
</li>
<li>    identify gaps and recommend best-practices to close them.
</li>
</ol>
<h3> <span class="mw-headline" id="Tools">Tools</span>
</h3>
<ol>
<li> mail: continue to use dc-architecture list?  YES
</li>
<li>meet: via skype? (DCMI webinar software may allow recording, etc.) 
<ol>
<li>   Karen ask Stuart &amp; Tom if software is available
</li>
<li>   Notes via Etherpad, copied to the DC wiki
</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li> Wiki for document creation
</li>
</ol>
<h3> <span class="mw-headline" id="Schedule">Schedule</span>
</h3>
<ol>
<li> one year
</li>
<li> meeting every 2 weeks to begin with. 4pm Tuesday, UTC+1
</li>
<li> Next meeting on June, 10 at 4pm Berlin Time
</li>
</ol>
<p>ACTION: Karen will work up a schedule for 6 months and put it on wiki
</p>
<p>ACTION: Kai will determine if a formal list of task group members is needed.
</p>
<p>ACTION: Evelyn will edit Google Doc of group charge. Some points: make clear that target users are DC community; include mention of mix and match of vocabularies.
</p>
<p>Note: Kai and Thomas collected requirements on RDF constraint formulation and  validation and stored them together with associated use cases, and case  studies in an extensible database: <a href="http://purl.org/net/rdf-validation" class="external free" rel="nofollow">http://purl.org/net/rdf-validation</a>
</p>
<p>Original notes: [<a href="http://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/dcmi-ap-rdf-3-27" class="external text" rel="nofollow">etherpad</a>]
</p>


				
				
	</div>